baapiiw'aan	brush dust or
_bboon'gat	be a certain
_bboon'gizi	be a certain
dso-dba'gne	be a certain
-nam'e-giizhik	a certain number
shiaabta 	half past the
shiaabta 	and a half
?aabnaabndamwaa	look back at
aadsin	be marooned be
aadskaso	be stranded out
aagkwepnaa	tie smb around
?aagneyendam	be a doubter
aakshkadekaaza	pretend to have
aakwaadat	be dangerous be
aan'kenmawaa	pass something to
aandkwenaa	move smbs head
aanzmaa	make a suggestion
baazgobdoon	scratch sth with
??bgidaabiignaan	loosen rope on
??biindgajgaaza	be brought into
?maazhma	check
a-	where  2
aa	well lets come
aab'aan	untie sth 
aab'amwaa	undo something for
aabaabka'aan	unlock sth
aabaabka'gan	key
aabaabka'mawaa	unlock something for
aabaabkawaa	unlock sth an
aabbidmawaa	unravel something for
aabbidoon	unravel sth
aabbinaa	unravel sth an
aabda	continuously
aabdaako-pabwin	bench
aabdaan'gidoon	talk continually talk
aabdaangzhe	have a steady
aabdagin	grow continually of
aabdat	be used be
aabdek	certainly for sure
aabdewebde	make a constant
aabdewebza	make a constant
aabdewebzo	make a constant
aabdewesin	ring constantly ring
aabdizi	be used be
aabdwewe	be on constantly
aabdwewe	be on constantly
aabdwewebde	make a constant
aabdwewebza	make a constant
aabdweweshin	ring constantly ring
aabdwewesin	ring constantly ring
aabiignaa	unroll sth an
aabiignaan	unroll sth unwrap
aabiignamwaa	unroll something for
aabiinj'aa	beat smb severely
aabiinzdaan	disparage sth denigrate
aabiinzge	disparage people
aabiinzjige	defame others denigrate
aabiinzmaa	disparage smb thrash
aabiish	where which interrogative
aabji'aa	use sth an
aabji-	constantly continually keep
aabjibde	move constantly run
aabjibtoo	run constantly be
aabjibza	move constantly be
aabjichgan	tool utensil
aabjiibaa	come back to
aabjiibaawin	resurrection
aabjinnidwak	fight each other
aabjinza	get into fights
aabjitaa	continue keep doing
aabjitmawaa	use something belonging
aabjitoon	use sth
aabjitwaa	 use something
aabnaa	undo sth an
aabnaabi	look back look
aabnaabmaa	look back at
aabnaabndaan	look back at
aabnaabndamaaza	look back as
aabnaan	undo sth untie
aabnamwaa	undo something for
aaboodaashi	flip over in
aaboodaasin	flip over in
aaboodsak	ceiling
aaboodse	flip over
aaboojbagaasin	flip up in
aaboojbiza	fly upside down
aaboojdakiigwaashkni	do a back
aaboojdewese	have ones heart
aaboojgwaashkni	do a back
aaboojiignaan	turns sth inside
aaboojiigshkaan	wear sth inside
aaboojiigshkawaa	wear sth an
aabooskaan	wear sth inside
aabooskawaa	wear sth an
aabshkaan	bump sth and
aabshkawaa	bump sth an
aabskobdoon	untie sth
aabskobnaa	untie sth an
aabta	half
aabta-	half 
aabta-bboon	be New Years
aabta-niibin	be Fourth of
aabtaa-dbikat	be midnight
aabtawaabik	halfdollar  2
aabtawdaakyaa	be halfway up
Aabtawewan	be Thursday
aabtaweyiing	halfway
aabtawna	around the middle
aabtawyi'iing	halfway
Aabtawyi'iiwan	be Wednesday
aabtoobdoon	fill sth half
aabtoobii	be half full
aabtoobii	be half full
aabtoobnaa	fill sth an
aabtoogaam	middle of the
aabtoogza	be middle of
aabtoojiinaa	embrace smb hug
aabtoojiindiwak	embrace each other
aabtooshkin	half a bagful
aabtooshkin	half a bagful
aabtooshkna'aa	fill sth an
aabtooshknadoon	fill sth half
aabtooshkne	be half full
aabtooshkne	be half full
aabtoowaabkizaawe	be halfdrunk be
aabtoowaabkizi	be half moon
aabtoowaadzi	be a halfwit
aabtoozi	be a halfbreed
aabtooziinh	halfbreed
aabtawaatik	half a bottle
aabwaa	warm up 
aab'waa	untie sth an
aabwaakdin 	thaw out
aabwaakji	thaw out
aabwaakjidoon	thaw sth out
aabwaakjimaa	thaw sth an
aabwaate	be mild and
aabziichgan	medicine made of
aabziingshi	be unable to
aabziingweyaashi	be refreshed from
aabziishin	recover from an
aabziiwaabminaagot	look as if
aabziiwnaagot	look as if
aabziiwnaagzi	look as if
aabziiwshin 	recover from an
aabziiwzi	recover from an
aabziiyaan'kot	clear up improve
aabziiyaan'kwat	clear up improve
aabziiyendam	be heartened feel
aachdegaade	be partitioned of
aad'oomoonh	canoe paddler
aadaagmishin	be stranded by
aadaagneshin	be snowbound
aadaakshin	be locked in
aadaakw'aan	lock sth
aadaakwaa	lock smb lock
aadaanoonh	corn dumpling
aadaanoonh	corn dumpling
aadoo'maa	catch a ride
aadoowii	catch a ride
aadshibiishin	be blocked by
aadshin	be marooned be
aadsookaan	legend myth sacred
aadsookaan	legend myth sacred
aadsooke	tell a legend
aadwa'maa	catch a ride
aadwa'wii	catch a ride
aagam	snowshoe
aagde	retch throw up
aagdinaa	push sth an
aagdinaan	push sth away
aagkwenaa	have ones arm
aagkwendiwak	hug each other
aagmase	walk in snowshoes
aagnetaan	disagree with sth
aagnetam	disagree deny
aagnetwaa	disagree with smb
aagoo'aan	close sth off
aagoo'on	cover up ones
aagoowaa	close sth an
aagwaabiigbidoon	pull sth closed
aagwaabiigbijge	pull something sheetlike
aagwaabiigbinaa	pull sth an
aagwaadzi	be absentminded 
aagwaajbiza	show off while
aagwiita	again additionally extra
aagwiitoodaase	wear an extra
aagwiitooknowe	wear a second
aagwiitooshkaan	wear sth as
aagwiitoowaajma	repeat a story
aagwiitoowaan'gidoon	repeat oneself
aagwiitoowaatesdoon	show sth as
aagwiitoowaatesjige	show reruns show
aajbi'we	be cornered somewhere
aajboowe	be cornered somewhere
aajkin'gan	room partition enclosure
aajkin'ge	make a room
aajkonaa	stop smb from
aajnaashkowaa	chase smb into
aakaa	of all the
aakde'e	be brave be
aakjinnjiinaa	unclench smbs fingers
aakmendaan	be mindful of
aakmendam	be mindful of
aakmenmaa	be mindful of
aakmizi	be alert
aakoozde	have feet of
aakpogot	taste fierce
aakpogzi	taste fierce
aakshkade	get a stomach
aakshkadeshkaagon	be given a
aakshkadewansh	chamomile
aakwaadaan'gidoon	talk tough
aakwaadendaagot	seem dangerous seem
aakwaadendaagzi	seem dangerous seem
aakwaadzi	be dangerous be
aakwaaji-zhiyaa	be illtempered be
aakwaakde	be dry and
aakwaakza	be dry and
aakwi-	frequently regularly
aakzi	be sick get
aakziigamik	hospital
aakziikaaza	pretend to be
aakziishkaagon	be made sick
aakziiwaadzi	be in poor
aakziiwgamik	hospital
aakziiwkawaa	make smb sick
aakziiwnaagzi	appear to be
aakzin	get pain in
aakziwin	disease illness sickness
aambe	lets leave now
Aamjiwnaang	Sarnia Ont
aamoo	bee
aamoo-ziiwaagmide	honey
aamoo-ziizbaakot	honey
aamoonh	bee
aamwaa	drive smb away
aan'kaach	alongside next to
aan'ke-	in succession in
aan'kege	add on to
aan'kese	be passed on
aan'ketoon	add on to
aan'keyaajma	add on to
aan'kinoosdoon	translate sth
aan'kinootmaage	interpret translate
aan'kobjigan	connection chain link
aan'konaanh	cracker soda biscuit
aan'konaans	cracker
aan'koobde	be tied to
aan'koobdoon	tie sth to
{nd}aan'koobjigan	my great grandchild
aan'koobjigan	connection chain link
aan'koobnaa	tie sth an
aan'koobza	be tied to
aan'koopde	be tied to
aan'koopdoon	tie sth to
aan'koopnaa	tie sth an
aan'koopza	be tied to
aan'koosdoon	join sth to
aan'koosenh	sleigh wagon on
aan'kooshin	be joined to
aan'kooshmaa	join sth an
aan'koosin	be joined to
aan'kot	cloud
aana	fortunately thankfully CL
aana-	in vain to
aanak	brown thrasher a
aanch	again
aand'amii	take a step
aandaabdesdoon	shift gears of
aandaabdeshmaa	shift gears of
aandaabdesjigan	gearshift
aandaabdesjige	shift gears
aandaabka'gan	key
aandaaddaan	change ones story
aandaajma	change ones story
aandaajmaa	change ones story
aandaajndaan	change ones story
aandaakmachge	rearrange things of
aandaakmatoon	rearrange sth of
aandaaknige	change ones plans
aandaanzhese	change to a
aandaashi	sail to another
aandbi	change ones seat
aandegshkwenh	common crow
aandek	common crow
aandendam	change ones mind
aandgoodoon	hang sth elsewhere
aandgoonaa	hang sth an
aandi	where interrogative used
aandi-sh	where interrogative used
aandkii	move to a
aandkii'aan	transplant sth of
aandkii'ge	transplant do transplanting
aandkiiwaa	transplant sth an
aandkweshmaa	put smbs head
aandpinaa	change smbs a
aandse	change be modified
aandshimaa	move sth an
aandshin	go and lie
aandsidoon	move sth elsewhere
aandsijge	rearrange things usually
aangwaadzi	be sane be
aangwaamnaa	hold onto sth
aangwaamnaan	hold onto sth
aangwaamzi	be careful be
aangwaazmaa	coax smb reassure
aangwizi	be tame
aangzhe	find a job
aangzhechge	employ people hire
aanii	how in what
aanii	Hi Hello
aanii	well
aaniigo naa iidik 	As if
aaniipii 	where interrogative used
aaniipii 	when interrogative
aaniipiish 	where interrogative used
aaniin	of course naturally
aaniin	of course naturally
aaniinde	of course naturally
aaniish	how
aaniish	why
aaniish	How are things
aaniish	Hey What are
aaniishpii 	when
aaniishpiich 	how are things
aanind	some a few
aanj'aa	change sth an
aanjbide	change direction driving
aanjbiza	change direction driving
aanjdaabaadaan	drag sth to
aanjdaabaanaa	drag sth an
aanjdaabii	drag things to
aanjgimaake	have an election
aanji-	over again
aanji-giisiwe	have ones period
aanjig	again
aanjii	change location move
aanjiiwe	change ones mind
aanjiiwenywi	renew ones effort
aanjnaama	take another breath
aanjpinaa	change smbs a
aanjpiza	change a bandage
aanjshimaa	change smbs mind
aanjshin	go and lie
aanjsidoon	move sth elsewhere
aanjsijge	rearrange things usually
aanjtoon	change sth replace
aanjtwaa	change religion convert
aanjwidoon	carry sth elsewhere
aanjwinaa	carry sth an
Aanmaa	German
aanmaatese	be a highly
aanmat	be a dire
aanmendaan	be exasperated with
aanmendam	be exasperated be
aanmenjge	be beleaguered be
aanmenmaa 	be exasperated with
aanmi'aa	beleaguer smb greatly
aanmimaa	berate smb disparage
aanmiweb'ogo	be tossed about
aanmiweb'ogot	be tossed about
aanmizi	be beleaguered suffer
aanmwewdam	make a loud
aano	to be sure
aano-	even though despite
aanoodwewemaa	exasperate smb with
aanoodzi	be greedy
aanooji-	dreadfully
aanoozmaa	coax smb persuade
aansaabwaadaan	dilute sth a
aanshge	go ahead and
aanshiitam	give up quit
aanshimaa	change smbs mind
aansisin	go stale lose
aanwaabmaa	dislike the look
aanwaabndaan	dislike the look
aanwendaagot	be distasteful be
aanwendaagzi	be distasteful be
aanwendaan	be dissatisfied with
aanwendiza	repent seek forgiveness
aanwenmaa	be dissatisfied with
aanwewzi	fail be unsuccessful
aanwi	fortunately thankfully 
aanwi'aa	be unable to
aanwitmaa	lose all strength
aanwitoo	lose all strength
aanwitoon	fail to budge
aanzendam	change ones mind
aanzhenii	angel
aanzkaan	change sth 
aanzkawaa	change sth an
aanzkonye	change clothes
aanzkonye'aa	change smbs clothes
aanzweshe	have poor hearing
aanzweshkwaa	miss smb by
aanzwetwaa	not hear smb
aanzyaan	diaper comm 
aanzyaanpinaa	put a diaper
aanzyepnaa	put a diaper
aapda'aagan	drudge errand boy
aapdaande	be stained permanently
aapdaanza	be stained permanently
aapdaap'aa	die laughing at
aapdaapi	die laughing
aapdaabka'oodoon	knot sth up
aapdaaptoon	die laughing at
aapdaasa	have sunstroke die
aapdagoode	fall out of
aapdagoojin	fall out of
aapdaji	freeze to death
aapdakiise	fall in and
aapdanaandam	starve
aapdendi	go away for
aapdenmaa	have a grudge
aapdingwaam	die in ones
aapdizna’ge	default on a
aapdiznamawaa	default on smbs
aapdwewe	make noise without
aapdwewe	make noise without
aapii	where  interrogative
aapiichin	on occasion from
aapiish	where interrogative used
aapin	like the same
aapji	very
aapji-	very  2
aapji-ntam	the very first
aapji-shkwaach	the very last
aapjibde	fly away irretrievably
aapjibtoo	run off somewhere
aapjibza	fly away irretrievably
aapjigaadebi	have ones leg
aapjigweweshkaa	have ones neck
aapjine	suffer ones last
aapjishin	fall to ones
aapjiwdoon	take sth away
aapjiwnaa	take sth an
aapwewin	bad dream nightmare
aapzikoonaa	kill smb with
aapzikooza	be killed by
aapzikwaa	kill smb by
aasaabde	be blindingly bright
aasaabza	be blinded by
aasaabzwaa	blind smb with
aasdibepza	wear a bandage
aasekmik	lichen moss
aash'aa	give ones illness
aashdikmaanaa	pass lice on
aashdoonemaa	pass ones way
aashiij-maajii	Oh dear Oh
aasht'oon'gii	move from one
aashta-booztoon	transfer sth from
aashta-boozi	transfer from one
aashtaw'aa	take revenge on
aashtawgwaashkni	jump from one
aashtawse	be passed on
aashtema	be a crossroad
aashtewmaa	argue with smb
aashtooshknadoon	transfer sth to
aashtooshknanaa	transfer sth an
aashtooziignaan	pour sth into
aashtowebnaa	throw sth an
aashtowebnaan	throw sth onto
aashwii-zhmaajii	Oh dear Oh
aasmaatik	on the wall
aasmaatik	wall
aasmagmik	against the wall
aasmagmik	outside wall
aasmidaaki	on the hillside
aasnaa	hey indicating affirmation
aasnaa	hold smb upright
aasnaan	hold sth upright
aasndibepnaa	bandage smbs head
aasnikepnaa	bandage smbs arm
aasnikepza	wear a bandage
aasninjiipnaa	bandage smbs hand
aasninjiipza	wear a bandage
aasookaan	legend myth sacred
aasookaan	legend myth sacred
aasooke	tell a legend
aaspide	be bandaged
aaspidoon	bandage sth put
aaspinaa	bandage smb put
aaspiza	be bandaged
aasshin	lean against something
aassin	lean against something
aaswaakdabi	sit leaning against
aaswaakgaabwi	stand leaning against
aaswaaknamaakwii	hold onto something
aaswaakshimaa	lean sth an
aaswaakshin	lean against something
aaswaaksidoon	lean sth against
aaswaaksin	lean against something
aate	be out go
aate'aan	extinguish sth put
aate'ge	extinguish a fire
aatebdoon	turn sth off
aatebjige	turn off a
aatebnaa	turn sth an
aateboodaadaan	blow sth out
aateboodaanaa	blow sth an
aatechge	turn off a
aategdaaza	cool off from
aatemogot	stop smelling dissipate
aatemogzi	stop smelling dissipate
aatese	go out stop
aatese	go out 
aateshin	sober up
aateshkaan	put sth out
aateshkwaa	put sth an
aatesjige	turn off a
aatetoon	extinguish sth put
aatewaa	extinguish sth an
aateyaabaawdoon	extinguish sth with
aateyaabaawnaa	extinguish sth an
aateyaande	fade in colour
aateyaanza	fade in colour
aateyaanzaawe	have ones bruises
aatwaajiise	fall landing face
aatwaajiishin	lie with ones
aatwaajiisin	lie right side
aatwaajiiyebnaa	throw smb over
aatwaajiiyebnaan	throw sth over
aatwaanaa	turn sth an
aatwaanaan	turn sth right
aatwaasdoon	place sth right
aatwaashin	lie face up
aatwaashmaa	place sth an
aatwaasin	lie face up
aatwaayiingweshin	lie with ones
aatwe	have fire go
aawan	be a certain
aawdamwaa	haul something for
aawdawaa	haul something for
aawdoon	haul sth
aawendaagot	be believed to
aawendaagzi	be believed to
aawendaan	construe sth to
aawendmitwaa	construe smbs remarks
aawenmaa	construe smb as
aawi	be a certain
aawjidaabaadaan	haul sth by
aawjidaabaadmawaa	haul something for
aawjidaabaanaa	haul sth an
aawjidaabii	haul things
aawjidaabiichge	haul things with
aawnaa	haul sth an
aawnsa	lets do something
aawsaabi	be crosseyed
aawsaabi	hallucinate
aawshkwe	haul hay
aawshkwetmawaa	haul hay for
aawzabii	haul water
aayaabtawzi	be a halfbreed
aayaan'koobde 	be tied to
aayaan'koobza 	be tied to
aayaazhkwe	scream in fright
aayaazhwe	scream in fright
aazhbik	mountain cliff rock
aazhda-	from one to
aazhda-boozi	transfer from one
aazhdaadiwin	mutual revenge
aazhdaw'aa	take revenge on
aazhdawwin	revenge
aazhde	cross
aazhdebde	fly across a
aazhdebza	fly across a
aazhdema	run across of
aazhdemaa	argue with smb
aazhdeshkaan	come up beside
aazhdeshkwaa	come up beside
aazhdewmaa	argue with smb
aazhdeyaakbii'gan	mark an X
aazhdeyaatik	cross crucifix
aazhdwewdam	argue talk back
aazhgan	bridge dock breakwater
aazhge	cross go across
aazhgema	run across of
aazhgidaabiigse	fall flat on
aazhgidaakdabi	sit leaning back
aazhgidgoojin	fall over backwards
aazhgidkweni	lean ones head
aazhgidkweshin	lie with ones
aazhgidnaa	turn sth an
aazhgidnaan	turn sth face
aazhgidse	flip over onto
aazhgidse	flip over onto
aazhgidshimaa	place sth an
aazhgidshin	lie face up
aazhgidsidoon	place sth face
aazhgidsin	lie face up
aazhgijbide	flip over backwards
aazhgijbidoon	turn sth face
aazhgijbinaa	turn sth an
aazhgijbiza	flip over backwards
aazhgijiingweshin	lie with ones
aazhgijwebshkaan	flip sth face
aazhgijwebshkawaa	flip sth face
aazhgise	flip over backwards
aazhgiskaan	flip sth face
aazhgiskawaa	flip sth an
aazhgo	already now
aazhi	already now 
aazhiiwzi	have an omen
aazhoo-	next period of
aazhoobza	stagger
aazhoogaam	across a body
aazhoogaami	across a body
aazhoogmik	behind the house
aazhoogwaashkni	jump from side
aazhook	back and forth
aazhoon'kogan	suspender
aazhoowaak'ige	have ones clothes
aazhoowaakwige	have ones clothes
aazhwaakwaa	the other side
aazhwi'ii	the other side
aazhwi'iing	the other side
aazhwisak	the other room
aazmagmaabzowin	suspender
aazndibebza	carry a load
aazndibebzowin	headband
aazndibepza	carry a load
abooy	sleep dried mucus
abwi	propeller
abwi	paddle
abwiins	fan implement used
ambegish	hope that may
amik	beaver
Anam'ewaatgwenh	Cross Village Michigan
Anishinaabe	North American Aboriginal
Anishnaabekwe	North American Aboriginal
Anishnaabemwin	Indian language
aw	this this one
baabaapnadaan	make fun of
baabaapnadwaa	make fun of
baabaasdeke	sun oneself
baabge	quickly right away
baabgognaamaa	knock sth an
baabgognaandaan	knock sth off
baabgose	become detached fall
baabgose	become detached fall
baabgwaad'aan	scrape sth off
baabgwaadam	without an apparent
baabgwaadam	be least of
baabgwaadwaa	scrape sth an
baabgwaak'aan	peel sth
baabgwaakwaa	peel sth an
baabgwaakwaan	peel sth
baabgwaashi	be blown off
baabgwaasin	be blown off
baabgwegaashi	get ripped off
baabgwegaasin	get ripped off
baabgwegbidoon	pull sth off
baabgwegbinaa	pull sth an
baabii	wait
baabii'aa	wait for smb
baabii'o	wait
baabii'we	wait for people
baabiichge	wait
baabiidnagaakzidebi	sit with soles
baabiidnagaakzideshin	lie with soles
baabiidsachge	force up things
baabiimskogaa	dance in circles
baabiitookdaan	slice sth up
baabiitooknaa	slice sth an
baabiitoon	wait for sth
baabiiyepo	be light snow
baabiiyewaaboode	be specks of
baabooskninjii	have dimples on
baabsaabiignaan	tighten sth of
baabsaabiisin	be taut of
baabsaakw'aan	screw sth tightly
baabsaakwaa	screw sth an
baabsibdoon	pull sth tight
baabsibnaa	pull sth an
baabsiboodaadaan	inflate sth
baabsiboodaanaa	inflate sth an
baabsiigbidoon	stretch sth out
baabsiigbinaa	stretch sth an
baabsikaan	find sth a
baabsikwaa	find sth an
baabsishin	fit tightly into
baabsisin	fit tightly into
baachgamde	boil over
baachgamza	boil over
baachgamzekwe	have something boil
baag'aakwaanh	chicken hen
baag'aakwenh	chicken hen
baagaakogaans	basket splint the
baagaakogan	basket splint the
baagaakoge	see baagaakwige
baagaakshimaa	bang sth an
baagaaksidoon	bang sth against
baagaak'igan	basket splint the
baagaakw'ige	pound wood to
baagaakwenh	chicken hen
baagaakwigan	see baagaakwigan
baagaakwige	see baagaakwige
baagdoone	have a swollen
baagdooskne	have a swollen
baaggidgwe	have a swollen
baagmide	warm be warmed
baagmizaan	warm sth up
baagnaa	strike smb of
baagnaan	strike sth of
baagnagskwe	have a swollen
baagndibe'gan	war club
baagndibegnaamaa	hit smb on
baagndibeshin	hit ones head
baagndibewaa	hit smb on
baagnige	strike flash a
baagniishkwe	have swollen tonsils
baagnike	have a swollen
baagninjii	have a swollen
baagshi	have a swelling
baagsin	be swollen
baagsin	run aground
baagwaa	be shallows
baakaabiigbidoon	pull sth open
baakaabiignaan	open drapes or
baakaabiignige	open drapes or
baakaaknaa	open sth an
baakaaknaan	open sth of
baakaaknige	open up canned
baakaakzaan	cut sth open
baakaakzwaa	cut sth an
baakaan'kot	open up part
baakbidoon	pull sth open
baakbinaa	pull sth an
baakdaaknige	make irreversible plans
baakdakmigzi	start an activity
baakdendam	have ones mind
baakdoonegoojin	have ones mouth
baakdoonengwaam	sleep openmouthed
baakdoonetaa	open ones mouth
baakganaamaa	open sth an
baakganaandaan	open sth by
baakiignaan	turn sth down
baakiignaan	open sth turn
baakiigsidoon	lay sth down
baakiigsin	lie with its
baakji-	irreversible irreversibly
baakjibza	drive off with
baakjiibdoon	open sth tear
baakjiibjige	open parcels open
baakjiibnaa	open sth an
baakkamgise	be shaken open
baakkodaan	cut sth open
baakkonaa	cut sth an
baakmaa	open sth an
baaknaa	open sth an
baaknaan	open sth up
baaknamwaa	open something for
baakndaan	open sth with
baakshimaa	knock sth an
baaksidoon	knock sth open
baakwaanaatik	staghorn sumac a
baakwaanmish	staghorn sumac a
Baakwan	be Easter
Baakwang	Easter Eastertime
baamaa	not until 
baampii	later
baan'shaawaan	piece of meat
baap'aa	laugh at smb
baapaagaakbii	be full to
baapaagaakbii	be full to
baapaagaakshkin'aa	fill sth an
baapaagaakshkindoon	fill sth to
baapaagaakshkine	be full to
baapaagaakshkine	be full to
baapaagdinmaangnewaa	slap smb on
baapaagi-shka'ii	brand spanking new
baapaagi-shki'aa	brand spanking new
baapaagi-shki-	brand spanking new
baapaagi-shki-daabaan	brand spanking new
baapaagjiishkaa	be flatulent have
baapaagjiishkaagon	be given gas
baapaas-ledii	ritzy lady
baapaas-ya'aawish	high falutin dude
baapaasaandip	director executive head
baapaasdiiye-boogshkaa	be crackedass broke
baapaase	woodpecker
baapaashkde	crackle of wood
baapaashki	balsam sap
baapaashkwaatik	balsam a kind
baapgone	have a good
baapi	laugh
baapiitoobjige	pull wood into
baapiitoozhaan	cut sth into
baapiitoozhwaa	cut sth an
baapiiwegnaa	shake dust or
baapiiwegnaan	shake dust or
baapiiwganaamaa	beat dust or
baapiiwganaandaan	beat dust or
baapiiwkizneshin	wipe ones shoes
baapiiwnaa	brush dust or
baapiiwnaan	brush dust or
baapiiwnawaa	clean smb out
baapiiwnige	be drained out
baapiiwsa'aa	shake sth an
baapiiwsatoon	shake sth loose
baapiiwshimaa	shake dust or
baapiiwsidoon	shake dust or
baapiiw'waa	brush dust or
baapiiwwebnaa	shake dust or
baapiiwwebnaan	shake dust or
baapiiwyegsatoon	shake dust or
baapish	any moment now
baapnaasdoon	spend sth carelessly
baapnadaan	waste sth
baapnadwaa	waste sth an
baapnakmigat	be lively be
baapnakzaawe	be boisterous make
baapnenmo	take things lightly
baapnizwaagan	Oh boy Oh
baapnwewdam	call out boisterously
baapnwewe	sound lively sound
baaptamwaa	laugh at something
baaptoon	laugh at sth
baapzhigiizhwe	kid people tell
baapzhimaa	kid smb pull
baapzhinaagzi	look comical
baapzhitaagzi	kid around joke
baas'aan	crack sth with
baasa	be dry comm
baasaabiishkaa	have a hairline
baasaak	change coins less
baasaakzaan	crack sth using
baasaakzwaa	crack sth an
baasaan	dry sth by
baasaawngaak	flour
baasde	crack from heat
baasdeke	bask in the
baasganaamaa	crack sth an
baasganaandaan	crack sth by
baashda'ge	jump over another
baashdaagwaan	plantain lowgrowing plant
baashdagnaandaan	hit sth over
baashdakaadaan	pass sth go
baashdakaanaa	overtake smb pass
baashdawaa	go over smbs
baashdebii	overflow
baashdebii	overflow of a
baashji-	over to an
baashji-piitzi	be overage
baashjibde	drive past overshoot
baashjibza	drive past ones
baashjigmide	boil over
baashjigmiza	boil over
baashjigwaashkni	jump over sth
baashk'aan	break sth open
baashk'amaaza	burst into song
baashkaabgonii	bloom
baashkaawe	hatch
baashkbiisaa	burst into rain
baashkdagoode	fall over a
baashkdagoojin	fall over a
baashkdamoonh	parrot
baashkdebdoon	fill sth to
baashkdebii	overflow of a
baashkdebnaa	fill sth an
baashkdiyaamaa	defecate on sth
baashkdiyaandaan	defecate on sth
baashkgondaagan	burst into a
baashkjiibdoon	break sth open
baashkjiibnaa	break sth an
baashkjiide	burst from heat
baashkjiignaamaa	burst sth an
baashkjiignaandaan	burst sth by
baashkjiisdoon	burst sth by
baashkjiishin	break open in
baashkjiishkaa	break open burst
baashkjiishkaa	break open burst
baashkjiishmaa	burst sth an
baashkjiisin	break open in
baashkjiiwaa	burst sth an
baashkjii'aan	burst sth with
baashkjiiza	burst from heat
baashkko'om	crack of thunder
baashkmaa	break sth an
baashkmin'sigan	jam preserves fruit
baashkndaan	break sth open
baashknjibgwaan	trillium a kind
baashktaawngaa	be lots of
baashkwaa	break sth an
baashkwewdam	burst into a
baashkwewe	burst into sound
baashkwewechge	burst into instrumental
baashkzaan	shoot sth shoot
baashkzaan	crack sth by
baashkzigan	penis
baashkzigan	gun
baashkzigewin	semen
baashkzodza	shoot oneself
baashkzwaa	shoot smb shoot
baashkzwaa	crack sth an
baashzaabmaa	overlook smb overlook
baashzaabndaan	overlook sth 
baasiig'aan	dry sth with
baasiigwaa	dry sth an
baasiingwe	have a puffy
baaskaa	crack
baaskaa	crack
baaskaan	crack sth with
baaskawaa	crack sth an
baaskoode	be cracked by
baaskoodoon	crack sth by
baaskoonaa	crack sth an
baaskooza	be cracked by
baasmaa	crack sth an
baasnaasa	dry ones clothes
baasndaan	crack sth with
baasndibeshin	fracture ones skull
baasnikeshin	fracture ones arm
baasninjii	have ones hands
baasnoogneshin	fracture ones hip
baasshimaa	crack sth an
baasshkoodaan	cause sth to
baasshkoonaa	cause sth an
baassidoon	crack sth by
baaswaa	dry sth an
baaswaa	crack sth an
baaszaan	heat sth and
baaszide	have puffy swollen
baaszwaa	heat sth an
baataa-doodam	sin commit sin
baataa-doodwin	sin
baataadyeshin	get ones rear
baataagaadeshin	get ones leg
baataajiishkweshin	be stuck in
baataamaa	tattle on smb
baataan'keshin	get ones arm
baataanjiishin	get ones hand
baataashin	be stuck
baataasin	be stuck
baataawaagneshin	be stuck in
baataawaakdin	be frozen stuck
baataawaakji	be frozen stuck
baataawaandwe	get stuck someplace
baataawe	tattle tell on
baataayiing	beyond reach out
baataazdeshin	get ones foot
baataazi	sin commit sin
baataazwin	sin
baate	dry be dry
baate-	dried
baatewaagmisek	beer
baatiin'aa	have lots of
baatiinat	be lots be
baatiini	be lots be
baatiintoon	have lots of
baazgiingwebnaa	scratch smb on
baazgiingweyaakjin	get ones face
baazgobjige	scratch to wound
baazgobnaa	scratch wounding smb
baazgod'aan	make a scratch
baazgodwaa	make a scratch
baazgogaadebnaa	scratch smb on
baazgogaadewaakjin	get ones leg
baazgojaanebnaa	scratch smb on
baazgon'kebnaa	scratch smb on
baazgonjiishin	get ones hand
baazgonjiiwaakjin	get ones hand
baazgwaad'aan	scratch sth with
baazgwaadwaa	scratch sth an
baazgwaakjidoon	snag sth and
baazgwaakjimaa	snag sth an
baazgwaakjin	get ones body
baazgwaawganebnaa	scratch smb on
baazhgwaadzi	exert oneself
baazmaa	twist smbs words
babgiwyaan	shirt
bagashk	cutweed
bagnaa	cornbread
{n}bajaagan	my penis
{n}bajaagan	my penis
bakjigan	hand planter
bakmaabgo	float downstream
baktendbe'ge	beat people on
baktewdiwak	beat each other
baktewdizo	hit oneself strike
bangii	a few a
bangiishengat	be a few
bangiishengizi	be a few
bashkbiite	be lukewarm be
bashkzhige	cut hay
bashkzi	be featherless be
baskawaan	shinny bag
baskawe	play shinny a
bayoo	babys hammock
bazgimaa	have smb for
bazh	rafter stud squared
bbaa-	moving around going
bbaa-mshkikiiwe	go out looking
bbaa-nda-bezhgoogzhiiye	go out looking
bbaa-nda-bzhikiiwe	go out looking
bbaa-nikaa	be around on
bbaa-wiijiiwaa	accompany smb somewhere
bbaa-wiijiiwaa	date smb go
bbaa-wiijiiwe	accompany others go
bbaa-zhaa	go someplace
bbaagmaji	have chills come
bbaagskidoonese	smack ones lips
bbaagskidyewaa	spank smb give
bbaagskinjiiwaa	slap smb on
bbaagskinjiiwdiza	applaud clap ones
bbaamaadgaa	go for a
bbaamaadge	go for a
bbaamaadzi	go on a
bbaamaajma	spread a story
bbaamaajmaa	spread a story
bbaamaajndaan	spread a story
bbaamaandwe	climb around go
bbaamaandwebtoo	run around climbing
bbaambatoo	go running run
bbaambiza	drive around fly
bbaambo'go	go horseback riding
bbaamdaabaan'go	go for a
bbaamdaabaazo	drag ones family
bbaamendaagot	matter
bbaamendaan	concern oneself with
bbaamenmaa	concern oneself with
bbaamgaa	dance about dance
bbaamgaa'aa	dance smb around
bbaamgaajgan	toy top
bbaamkomii	walk around on
bbaamkozhwe	ride around in
bbaamnaashkawaa	chase smb around
bbaamnigaadoon	carry sth around
bbaamnigaanaa	carry sth an
bbaamoode	crawl around
bbaamoodes'aa	push smb around
bbaamse	walk around go
bbaamtaan	listen to sth
bbaamtawaa	listen to smb
bbaamwebshkige	go bicycling go
bbaamwidoon	carry sth around
bbaamwinaa	carry sth an
bbaamziwin	personal business personal
bbaanendaan	concern oneself with
bbaanenmaa	concern oneself with
bbaatiinat	be many be
bbaatiini	be many be
bbaatiino	be many be
bbagaa	be thin of
bbagiigat	be thin of
bbagiigzi	be thin of
bbagooyaan	cloth bolt of
bbagooyaan	shirt
bbagwayaan	shirt
bbagzi	be thin of
bbakwaanaajiinh	bat flying animal
bbashkbiigndibe	be bald
bbashkjiindbe	be bald
bbashkndibe	be bald
bbashko-	bald hairless
bbashkwaanaajiinh	bat flying animal
bbashkwebiigndibekza	have ones head
bbashnzhewaa	spank smb whip
bbaskaaknese	flash of lights
bbaskiibii	wriggle
bbaskwebiigndibe	be bald
bbenak	behave better
bbigon	flute
bbiig-makii	toad
bbiiwaa	be small be
bbiiwaabiiggaade	have really skinny
bbiiwaabiignike	have really skinny
bbiiwkawe	make small tracks
bbiiwzhiinyi	be small
bbik	flea
bbimse	go walking along
bbimsiniiwaa	throw stones at
bbimweb'ogo	float along on
bboon	be winter
bboonshi	spend winter in
bchi'aa	mistake smb for
bchi-	accidentally by mistake
bchibdoon	grab sth else
bchibnaa	grab sth else
bchichge	do something accidentally
bchinaadaan	hit sth accidentally
bchinaajge	shoot something accidentally
bchinwaa	hit smb by
bchiwdoon	accidentally take sth
bchiwnaa	accidentally take sth
bdagnigo	be paralyzed temporarily
bdagshkam	brood attend to
bdagwaakninjii	clench ones fist
bdak'odza	give oneself a
bdakaabiig'ige	have a wide
bdakaabiigmo	have a wide
bdakaakdabi	sit erect sit
bdakaakgaabwi	stand upright
bdakaakse	land upright in
bdakaakse	land upright in
bdakbase'aan	spear sth
bdakbasewaa	spear sth an
bdakde	stand grow upright
bdakdoon	put sth on
bdakiig'ige	quilt
bdakiig'ignaatik	quilting frame rod
bdakji'gan	fork
bdakjii'aan	grab sth with
bdakjii'gan	dinner fork
bdakjiiwaa	grab sth an
bdaknaa	put sth an
bdaknigo	have a nightmare
bdakshimaa	erect sth an
bdakshin	stand erect of
bdakshka'gan	hay fork pitchfork
bdakshkaa	de deflected turn
bdakshkaa	be deflected turn
bdaksidoon	erect sth stand
bdaksin	stand erect of
bdak'waa	give smb a
bdakza	stand grow upright
bdangbide	change course turn
bdangbiza	change course turn
bdangii	turn off and
bdangkwe'ge	turn the steering
bdangwaanweni	tuck ones tail
bdangzideni	change strategy
btashkaanzhe	Virginia rail a
bdashkanzhiinh	American woodcock
bdignigo	be paralyzed temporarily
bdiknandiwak	thump around while
bdikwaaktoo	thump around 
bdikwewe	be thumping sounds
bdikwewebza	rumble of vehicles
bebaabgaanh	pancake
bebezhik	one by one
bebiikwaagaanh	camel
bebiins	baby
bebkaan	different individually separately
bebkaandaase	wear mismatched socks
bebkaandoon	be different from
bebkaanshimaa	place an things
bebkaanshin	sleep in separate
bebkaansidoon	place things in
bebkaanziwak	be different from
bebngii	little by little
bebzhishak	emptyhanded
bedaadzi	be slow by
bedaagzi	be weak physically
bedaanzhe	be dim shine
bedaanzhe	be dim shine
bedaaskone	be dim shine
bedaaskone	be dim shine
bedaaskonwe	be dim have
bedwewe	talk in a
bedwewe	be low in
bedwewechge	play music at
bedwewetoon	lower the volume
begde	belch burp
begdeshkone	belch from overeating
begish	hope wish
bejbatoo	run slowly
bejbide	fly slowly go
bejbiza	fly slowly go
bejiiwii	be physically weak
bejiiwiimgat	be physically weak
bejiiywii	be physically weak
bejnawzi	be poky be
bejtaa	be slow
bekaa	quietly  2
bekaa	Hang on Just
bekaa-yaa	be quiet quiet
bekaadendam	be at peace
bekaadzi	be a quiet
bekaadzi	be slow by
bekaanak	something else another
bekaanzit	somebody else something
bekgoodenh	padlock
bekish	hope wish
bekish	at the same
bemaabiigniget	manager
bemdaabaazhwenh	taxi driver
bemnaagnekwe	waitress
bengbiigese	run out of
bengde	dry out in
bengdin'ge	knead dough make
bengdinaan	knead sth of
bengkiide	dry out of
bengnaagne	dry dishes by
bengnaagne'gan	dish towel
bengsag'ige	dry the floor
bengshkaan	wear sth until
bengw'aan	dry sth by
bengwaa	dry sth an
bengwaabka'aan	dry sth by
bengwaabkawaa	dry sth an
bengwaakdin	be frozen dry
bengwaakji	be frozen dry
bengwaapkisdoon	airdry sth of
bengwaapkishin	airdry
bengwaapkishmaa	airdry sth an
bengwaapkisin	airdry
bengwaasdoon	dry sth in
bengwaasjige	dry clothes in
bengweg'aan	iron sth dry
bengweniigin	hand towel bath
bengza	dry out in
bengzhew'o	dry oneself off
bengzhewaa	dry smb off
bengzhewdiza	dry oneself off
bepeshaaban	be streaks of
bepeshaabiigmo	be streaks of
bepeshignebik	garter snake
besha	close nearby near
beshaabiigmo	streak across
beshaakbii'ge	vote by marking
beshaakbiiwaa	vote for smb
beshbii'ge	make a mark
beshbii'ge	vote by marking
beshiishknaamag	husk
beshkbiigat	be striped have
beshkbiigzi	be striped have
beshkodaan	cut stripes into
beshkonaa	cut stripes into
beshkwe	common nighthawk a
besho	form a slit
beshwaabmaa	see smb from
beshwaabminaagot	appear to be
beshwaabminaagwat	appear to be
beshwaabminaagzi	have an event
beshwaabndaan	narrowly miss having
beshwat	be close be
beshwendaagot	seem near be
beshwinaagwat	seem near
beshwinaagzi	seem near
beshwizi	be close to
beskaa	be slow move
beskaachge	have ones clock
bewaatenh	lantern
bezhgo	be one in
bezhgon	be one in
bezhgonong	in the same
bezhgoobii'gan	the numeral one
bezhgoogaabwi	stand alone
bezhgoognzhii	horse
bezhgoogzhiiwgamik	stable
bezhgoongzhiiwgamik	stable
bezhgooshkiinzhgwe	have one eye
bezhgooshkiinzhgweyaabi	see out of
bezhgotoon	use the same
bezhgwaabiig	one row one
bezhgwaabik	one dollar onedollar
bezhgwaatik	one bottle one
bezhgwek	one one sheet
bezhik	one  2
bgaakmish	bur oak
bgaan	nut
bgaanaak	black walnut a
bgaanens	peanut
bgaanens	peanut
bgaanensmin'gaawansh	American hazel a
bgaanensmin'gaawansh	beaked hazel a
bgadoonh	button
bgaktaan	hear sth distinctly
bgamaabaawe	arrive all wet
bgamaabkizaawe	arrive drunk
bgamaagan	cudgel club
bgamaagne	arrive walking through
bgamaakshkooza	arrive weighed down
bgamaakwese	arrive ready to
bgamaanmat	the wind comes
bgamaapi	arrive laughing
bgamaawza	arrive with a
bgamat	the storm arrives
bgambatoo	arrive running
bgambide	arrive arrive driving
bgambii	arrive drunk arrive
bgambiisaa	the rain comes
bgambiisaan	the rain comes
bgambiza	arrive arrive driving
bgamdaabii	arrive dragging something
bgamdema	arrive crying
bgamiinwak	arrive in hordes
bgamjiwan	arrive flowing
bgamkande	a crowd arrives
bgamnaabaagwe	arrive thirsty
bgamnaandam	arrive hungry
bgamoomaa	arrive carrying sth
bgamoondaan	arrive carrying sth
bgampo	the snow arrives
bgamse	arrive walking
bgamshtigwaan	hammer
bgamshtigwe'aan	hammer on sth
bgamshtigwe'ge	hammer use a
bgamshtigwewaa	hammer on sth
bgamwewebde	arrive making noise
bgamwewebza	arrive with the
bganch	dimwit idiot
bgand'aan	thresh sth
bgand'igan	thresher farm implement
bgand'igan	threshing stick
bgand'ige	thresh
bgandaanmat	the wind comes
bgandat	be backward be
bgandenmaa	think smb stupid
bgandwaa	thresh sth an
bgandzi	be stupid be
bgashkbidoon	crumble sth
bgashkbinaa	crumble sth an
bgashknani	be rotten
bgashknat	be rotten
bgashkzhaan	cut sth up
bgashkzhwaa	cut sth an
bgaskaasin	be slapped against
bgaskaawganewaa	slap smb on
bgaskdiiyegnaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskdiiyeshin	fall flat on
bgaskdiiyewaa	slap smb on
bgaskiigaashi	be slapped against
bgaskiigaasin	be slapped against
bgaskiingdibe'ge	slap people on
bgaskiingdibewaa	slap smb on
bgaskiingwegnaamaa	slap smbs face
bgaskiingwewaa	slap smb on
bgaskjiignaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskjiiwaa	slap smb on
bgaskjiiyaabaawe	get plastered by
bgaskmisdewaa	slap smb on
bgaskndibe'ge	slap people on
bgaskndibegnaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskndibewaa	slap smb on
bgaskninjiignaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskninjiiwaa	slap smb on
bgaskse	slap against something
bgaskshin	hit something with
bgasksin	hit something with
bgesaan	peach
bgesaan	plum fruit
bgesaanaatik	plum tree
bgesaanmin'gaawansh	American plum the
bgid'aan	put sth down
bgidaabiignaa	loosen the reins
bgidaagshkaan	let sth spring
bgidendaan	give up sth
bgidendiza	give oneself up
bgidenjge	hold a funeral
bgidenmaa	bury smb hold
bgidkwenaa	put smbs head
bgidnaa	allow smb give
bgidnaama	exhale
bgidnaan	let go of
bgidnamwaa	let smb have
bgidnige	donate something 
bgidnise	put wood in
bgidoomaa	set sth an
bgidoondaan	set sth down
bgidsabii	set fishing nets
bgidwaa	set fishing nets
bgidwaa	put sth down
bgii	a few a
bgii	a few a
bgijne	be no longer
bgijwebnaa	drop sth an
bgijwebnaan	drop sth deliberately
bgiw	gum of a
bgiza	swim
bgizhegoode	hang loose
bgizkaa	relax ones body
bgo'aan	patch sth sew
bgo'aan	chop a hole
bgo'ge	patch apply patches
bgo'mawaa	patch something for
bgodkamik	out in the
bgodkana	on a road
bgodoonzhe	have an illegitimate
bgog'ige	chop a hole
bgoj-nishnaabens	elf leprechaun
bgoji'iing	in the wild
bgoji-	untame wild
bgoji-bzhiki	bison buffalo
bgoji-mnoomin	wild rice
bgoji-nini	elf leprechaun
bgoji-zhgaagwinsh	wild onion
bgojiinaa	operate on smb
bgojne	die out in
bgona	with no guidance
bgone'aan	make a hole
bgonebdamwaa	make a hole
bgonebdoon	make a hole
bgonebnaa	make a hole
bgoneboodoon	drill a hole
bgoneboonaa	drill a hole
bgonede	get a burn
bgonega'ge	chop a hole
bgonegnaamaa	knock a hole
bgonegnaandaan	knock a hole
bgonejiishkaan	kick a hole
bgonejiishkwaa	kick a hole
bgonekdaan	cut a hole
bgonekjige	cut a hole
bgoneknaa	cut a hole
bgonenaajge	chop a hole
bgonesga'aan	put a hole
bgoneshewaa	pierce smbs ears
bgoneshkaa	get a hole
bgoneshkaa	get a hole
bgoneshkaan	kick a hole
bgoneshkwaa	kick a hole
bgonewaa	make a hole
bgoneyaa	be a hole
bgoneyaabkaa	be a hole
bgoneyaakde	get a burn
bgoneyaakshkaan	put a longish
bgoneyaakshkawaa	put a longish
bgoneyaakza	get a burn
bgoneyaakzaan	burn a hole
bgoneyaakzwaa	burn a hole
bgonezaan	heat sth causing
bgonezhaan	cut a hole
bgonezhwaa	cut a hole
bgonezi	be a hole
bgonezo	be a hole
bgonezwaa	heat sth an
bgonjiishin	get blisters from
bgonjiishkaa	have ones hands
bgonjiishkaagon	be given blisters
bgosaabmaa	look at smb
bgosendam	hope wish make
bgosenmaa	beg of smb
bgosh'aa	bum something off
bgosh'aa	gain points off
bgoshkaagon	be chafed by
bgoshwe	gain points off
bgoshwe	bum things off
bgoso	mend things made
bgowaa	patch sth an
bgowaa	chop a hole
bgozdeshin	get blisters from
bgozdeshkaagon	be given blisters
bgozhaajge	urinate in ones
bgwaadam	for no reason
bgwaashaagdi	be naked
bgwaashaagdoobi	sit naked
bgwaashaagdoobnaa	strip smb naked
bgwaashaagdoobtoo	run naked
bgwaashaagdoogaabwi	stand naked
bgwaashaagdooshin	lie naked
bgwaji-	in the wilds
bgwi	ash ashes
bgwisendam	hope wish make
bi	be in a
bi-	come and do
bi-dgoshin	arrive here get
bi-maajaa	leave to come
bi-mkawi	come to after
bi-naabi	look in this
bi-nesebza	come running breathlessly
bi-niindaawen	send sth this
bi-yaa	come to stay
biibaagdaandim	there be an
biibaagdaawe	auction things off
biibaagdaawen	sell something at
biibaagi	whoop shout
biibaagmaa	call out to
biibaagmaa	announce smbs intended
biibaagndaan	scream at sth
biibaagndam	shout scream
biichii	put ones boots
biichwebshkaan	throw sth on
biid'amaaza	come singing sing
biidaabiigmawak	come streaming in
biidaabminaagot	be seen approaching
biidaabminaagzi	be seen approaching
biidaaddaan	bring news about
biidaadgaa	come swimming this
biidaadge	come swimming this
biidaadzan	bring something for
biidaagmose	come walking in
biidaagnagii	come through deep
biidaagne	come walking through
biidaajma	bring news
biidaajmaa	bring news about
biidaajndaan	bring news about
biidaakoon'gishin	be positioned facing
biidaanzhe	approach with lights
biidaasa	bring stuff over
Biidaasge	Petoskey Mich
biidaasge	shine in this
biidaasmabi	sit facing this
biidaasmase	come walking this
biidaasmigaabwi	stand facing this
biidaasmishin	lie facing this
biidaasmisin	lie facing this
biidaawnaak	bring a bunch
biidaazbii	belch burp
biidii	Here chickie
biidiins	chick baby chicken
biidmawaa	bring something for
biidoode	come crawling crawl
biidoodebtoo	come scampering this
biidoon	bring sth
biidsa'aa	cough sth an
biidsatoon	cough sth up
biidwaa	bring something for
biidwewdam	come shouting come
biidwewebde	come this way
biidwewebtoo	come running making
biidwewebza	come this way
biidwewegnzhiibtoo	come galloping with
biidwewek'om	come thundering of
biidwewekmigbatoo	come running with
biidwewekzinebtoo	come running with
biidwewemaa	summon smb unintentionally
biidwewenaama	come breathing audibly
biidwewendmawaa	call down something
biidwewesgibtoo	come running with
biidwewezdebtoo	come running making
biig'ige	smash things
biig'omwaa	break something belonging
biigbidmawaa	break something belonging
biigbidoon	break sth with
biigbijge	break things
biigbinaa	break sth an
biigboodoon	break sth up
biigboonaa	break sth an
biigdaabaane	have ones vehicle
biigganaamaa	break sth an
biigganaandaan	break sth by
biigjiibdoon	break sth apart
biigjiibnaa	break sth an
biigjiisak	decaying wood rotten
biigjiisak	decaying wood rotten
biigjiisdoon	break sth by
biigjiishmaa	break sth an
biigkodaan	cut sth up
biigkodmawaa	cut something up
biigkonaa	cut sth an
biigmaa	break sth an
biignaa	take sth an
biignaan	take sth apart
biignaan	change sth into
biigndaan	break sth with
biigndibewaa	break smbs head
biignemaa	break sth an
biignendaan	break sth in
biigsa'aa	break sth an
biigsatoon	break sth by
biigshimaa	break sth an
biigshkaa	break break down
biigshkaa	break break down
biigshkaan	break sth with
biigshkamwaa	break something belonging
biigshkawaa	break sth an
biigsidmawaa	break something belonging
biigsidoon	break sth by
biigw'aan	break sth by
biigwaa	break sth an
biigwaaboode	be broken up
biigwaakde	break from being
biigwaakza	break from being
biigwaakzaan	put sth in
biigwaakzwaa	put sth an
biigwegbidoon	tear up sth
biigwegbinaa	tear up sth
biigzaan	heat sth and
biigzaan	blast sth blow
biigzhaan	destroy sth in
biigzhwaa	destroy sth an
biigzigan	stone quarry
biigzige	blast blast things
biigzwaa	heat sth an
biigzwaa	blast sth an
biijba'diwak	come running this
biijbatoo	come running run
biijbide	come driving come
biijbii'gan	incoming letter
biijbii'mawaa	write a letter
biijbiza	come driving come
biijdibewaa	smash smbs skull
biijdiiyeshin	lie with ones
biijgaa	come dancing dance
biijgaashin	come leaving a
biiji-	towards this direction
biijiingweshin	lie with ones
biijiingwewaa	punch smb in
biijmaagot	smell give off
biijmaagtoo	fart and make
biijmaagwat	smell give off
biijmaagzens	smelt a type
biijmaagzi	smell give off
biijmaamaa	smell smb
biijmaandaan	smell sth
biijmaanjge	smell things
biijnaweshkaagon	be left with
biijndibewaa	smash smbs skull
biijnesdoon	breathe sth in
biijneshin	come through the
biijnesin	come through the
biijpidaan	taste sth detect
biijpogot	be detectable through
biijpogzi	be detectable through
biijpwaa	taste sth an
biijwine	come carrying things
biikokwaawesi	blackbilled cuckoo
biim'aakwaa	fasten sth an
biim'aakwaan	fasten sth crookedly
biimaa	be crooked in
biimaakot	climbing bittersweet a
biimaakot	be crooked in
biimaakzi	be crooked in
biimaatdagnaan	roll sth in
biimaatdagnige	roll things up
biimbatoo	run awkwardly
biimdamo	wind have many
biimdawaabi	be crosseyed
biimdoon	have a crooked
biimdooneshkaa	have a twisted
biimendam	feel slighted
biimgoode	hang crookedly
biimgoodoon	hang sth crookedly
biimgoojin	hang crookedly
biimgoonaa	hang sth an
biimgwebnaa	twist smbs neck
biimiingweshkaa	have a twisted
biimnakwe	roll twine
biimnig'igan	screwdriver
biimnigan	auger
biimshimaa	set sth an
biimshin	be crooked in
biimsidoon	set sth down
biimsin	be crooked in
biimsko'aan	turn sth around
biimskobde	go around in
biimskobdoon	turn sth around
biimskobgiza	spin around turn
biimskobnaa	turn sth an
biimskobtoo	run around in
biimskobtwaadaan	run around in
biimskobtwaanaa	run around in
biimskobza	drive around in
biimskodsiinh	snail
biimskogwewebnaa	twist smbs neck
biimskojwan	be a whirlpool
biimskokaa	go around rotate
biimskokaa	go around rotate
biimskokweni	turn ones head
biimskon'kebnaa	twist smbs arm
biimskonaa	turn sth an
biimskonaan	turn sth around
biimskosdoon	turn sth around
biimskoshkaa	rotate slowly spin
biimskoshkaa	rotate slowly spin
biimskoshmaa	turn sth an
biimskoshmoonaa	turn smb around
biimskosjigan	toy top
biimskowebnaa	flip sth an
biimskowebnaan	flip sth around
biimskowebnige	have ones engine
biimskowebshkaan	turn sth around
biimskowebshkawaa	turn sth an
biimskowebshkigan	bicycle
biimskowebshkige	bicycle pedal on
biimskwa'aan	turn sth around
biimskwaabiignaa	coil sth an
biimskwaabiignaan	coil sth around
biimskwaan'gidoon	talk in circles
biimskwaanmat	blow in a
biimskwaashi	spin around rapidly
biimskwaashmaa	spin smb around
biimskwaasin	spin around rapidly
biimskwaasjigan	propeller of a
biimskwaasjigan	electric fan
biimskwaawnidwak	march around in
biimskwebshkige	bicycle pedal on
biimtagaayaa	be twisted
biimtagnigaa	be twisted of
biimtagnige	roll a cigarette
biimte'gan	spinning wheel
biimte'ge	spin yarn
biimzi	be crooked in
biin'aa	clean sth an
biin'gamgwe	have a clean
biin'kamgat	be a clean
biinaa	bring smb
biinaabminaagot	look clean
biinaabminaagzi	look clean
biinaabwaaza	undergo dialysis
biinaadzi	be a clean
biinaagmi	be clean of
biinaakzige	burn dead grass
biinaan'giingwe	have a clean
biinaatese	be clear give
biinat	be clean
biinchige	do cleaning clean
biind'aan	put sth inside
biindaabkiwebnaa	put sth an
biindaabkiwebnaan	put sth in
biindaagan	pocket
biindaagna'aan	have sth in
biindaagne	get snow in
biindaakwaadaan	fill a pipe
biindaakwaanaa	fill sth an
biindaakwe	fill a pipe
biindaawdoon	cram sth into
biindaawnaa	cram sth an
biindawaa	put sth an
biindgadaasa	bring stuff inside
biindgadmawaa	bring something in
biindgadoon	bring sth inside
biindgajgaade	be brought in
biindganaa	bring smb inside
biindgaza	bring lots of
biindge	come inside a
biindge-wiijiiwaa	accompany smb inside
biindgebde	go flying into
biindgebtoo	run inside a
biindgebza	drive inside fly
biindgedaabaadaan	drag sth inside
biindgedaabaanaa	drag sth an
biindgedema	come inside crying
biindgegwaashkni	enter jumping jump
biindgeknde	rush in of
biindgekweni	poke ones head
biindgense	bring wood in
biindgeshkaan	enter sth
biindgeshkwaa	enter smbs home
biindgeweb'ige	score produce a
biindgewebnaa	throw sth an
biindgewebnaan	throw sth inside
biindgeweweshin	be heard coming
biindgewoode	crawl in crawl
biindgewoodegzi	move in to
biindgeyaapi	come in laughing
biindgeyaashkaa	come in towards
biindgeyaashmaa	conjure smbs spirit
biindgeyaawnidwak	march in parade
biindgeyaawza	carry a load
biindgeziikge	track mud in
biindgowaa	enter smbs house
biindik	inside a building
biindkadeyaan	pancreas 
biindkijiisdoon	insert sth into
biindkijiisin	be inserted into
biindkomaan	scabbard knife sheath
biindnaknaan	tuck sth into
biindnakse	fall into a
biindnaksin	be inserted into
biindo'naa	catch sth an
biindooman	tuck something away
biindoomo	carry something hidden
biindsaagan	raft
biindsagboojge	cut grooves into
biindse	fall into something
biindshimaa	insert sth an
biindshkwaanaa	stuff sth an
biindsidoon	insert sth into
biingeji	be cold feel
biingejmanj'o	feel that one
biingewendam	be at the
biingeyaadkamik	Oh my goodness
biinish	until in affirmative
biinjbidoon	pull something inside
biinjbii	have water come
biinjbiise	fall into the
biinjbinaa	pull something inside
biinjbiza	drive into something
biinji'ii	in inside
biinji'iing	in inside
biinji-	in inside
biinjiignaa	tuck sth an
biinjiignaan	tuck sth into
biinjiigshin	be tucked into
biinjiigsin	be tucked into
biinjnadoon	wallop sth
biinjnanaa	wallop smb
biinjse	fall into something
biinjwebnaa	throw sth an
biinjwebnaan	throw sth into
biinjwebnige	throw things into
biinnaagot	be clean
biinnaagwat	be clean
biinnaagzi	be clean
biinninjii	have clean hands
biinsaadzi	have a dull
biinsaakdiiyebi	get a numb
biinsagaa	be clean of
biinshkiizhge	mow weeds to
biinsidoon	have ones mouth
biinsinjii	have ones hand
biinsipgot	be flavourless be
biinsipgozi	be flavourless be
biinsizi	be numb
biinte	be clean of
biintoon	clean sth
biinzi	be pure 
biinzide	have clean feet
biipiigenh	wood warbler nuthatch
biis'aan	break sth into
biis-biidiinsim	my little chick
biisaa	be small be
biisaagzhigan	splint divider
biisaagzhige	divide splints
biisaakbidoon	break sth up
biisaakbinaa	break sth an
biisaakbinaa	separate sth an
biisaangboojgan	harrows
biisaawngaa	be fine be
biisbidoon	break sth into
biisbiisaa	drizzle
biisbiisaan	drizzle
biisbinaa	break sth an
biisbinaa	separate sth an
biisboodoon	grind sth
biisboodoon	disk sth of
biisboonaa	grind sth an
biisboonaa	disk sth an
biisga'aan	chop sth into
biisgaadebtoo	run with small
biisgawaa	chop sth an
biisjiibdamwaa	crumble something for
biisjiibdoon	crumble sth of
biisjiibnaa	crumble sth an
biiskaan	put sth on
biiskamgiboojgan	harrows
biiskawaa	put sth an
biiskawaagaans	lightweight jacket
biiskawaagan	coat jacket
biiskizne	put shoes on
biiskodaan	cut sth up
biiskonaa	cut sth an
biiskonye	have ones clothes
biiskonye'aa	dress smb get
biiskoonaa	dress smb in
biismaa	break sth an
biisndaan	break sth to
biisnemaa	break sth an
biisnendaan	break sth to
biiswaa	break sth an
biiszhaan	cut sth to
biiszhwaa	cut sth an
biiszi	be small of
biite	foam lather suds
biitenaama	foam at the
biitewaagmi	be foamy of
biitewaagmise	foam up of
biiteyaagma'aan	beat sth to
biitgi	be a second
biitgin	be a second
biitkibnige	separate splints
biitoo-babgiwyaan	undershirt
biitoo-miiknoodens	panty panties
biitoo-miiknoot	underpants
biitoo-mkak	outer coffin
biitoo-mkizin	boot liner overshoe
biitoobiigninjiishkaa	have a blister
biitoogi	be a second
biitoogin	be a second
biitoogoodaan	a womans slip
biitoogwaade	have a lining
biitoogwaajgan	lining of a
biitoogzhewin	bed sheet
biitoojiishkwegnigan	pie
biitookdaan	slice sth
biitookde	be sliced
biitookdek	slice
biitooknaa	slice sth an
biitookza	be sliced
biitooshkaan	put sth on
biitooshkgan	overshoe
biitoosjinaagaans	saucer
biitoowaabkishkaa	separate into layers
biitoowegshkaa	separate into layers
biitoowegshkaa	separate into layers
biitooyaa	have layers
biitwi'iing	in the middle
biitwikaajgan	overshoe
biitwikaan	porch
biitwisak	ceiling
biitwisbak	between the walls
biiw'aan	brush dust or
biiw'igan	small brush
biiwaabik	piece of iron
Biiwaabko-aazhgan	Iron Bridge Ontario
biiwaabko-bezhgoogzhii	tractor
biiwaabkonaagan	iron bowl metal
biiwaabkoons	telephone
biiwaabkoons	wire
biiwaabkoons-giigdowin	telephone
biiwaabkwaabiigat	be strong of
biiwaabkwegat	feel like iron
biiwaabkwegzi	feel like iron
biiwaan'goonh	flint
Biiwaan'goonh-ziibi	Flint River
Biiwaan'goonying	Saginaw Indian Reservation
biiwaanak	arrowhead  2
biiway	fur wool yarn
biiway	fur a strand
biiwebdoon	tear sth into
biiwebnaa	tear sth an
biiweboodoon	saw sth into
biiweboonaa	saw sth an
biiwegnaamaa	pound sth an
biiwegnaandaan	pound sth into
biiwekdaan	cut sth into
biiwekdamaagnan	shavings
biiweknaa	cut sth an
biiwemaa	tear sth an
biiwenaa	sprinkle sth an
biiwenaan	sprinkle sth on
biiwendaan	tear sth into
biiwepo	be snow flurries
biiwesdoon	break sth into
biiweshkaa	fray
biiweshmaa	break sth an
biiwezhaan	cut sth into
biiwezhwaa	cut sth an
biiwganaamaa	knock dust or
biiwganaandaan	knock dust or
biiwwaa	brush dust or
biiwyaans	wool
biiwyens	a small piece
biiwzide	have small feet
Biiyen	Peter
biizgaakzige	curl ones hair
biizgaakzige'aa	curl smbs hair
biizgaan'kwe	have curly hair
biizgindbe	have curly hair
bijiide	be warm from
bijiiza	be warm from
bikan	tumpline pack strap
binjiinza	warm ones hands
binoojiinh	child
binoojiinkaaza	act childish act
binoojiins	baby toddler
binoojiinsmi	have a baby
binoojiinwi	be a child
binoojiinyenmaa	think of smb
binoojiinykewi	be pregnant
bisgide	be warm from
bizaan	warm sth up
bizdeza	warm ones feet
bizekwe	warm food up
bi-zhaa	come come over
bizwaa	warm sth an
bjaak	penis
bjib'aan	spear sth stab
bjib'ige	stab things
bjib'igen	strike something with
bjib'igese	fall headlong and
bjibwaa	spear sth an
bjigeshin	stumble trip
bjigeshnookaaza	pretend to trip
bjiinaago	yesterday
bjiinak	just a short
bka'aan	break sth with
bka'gaade	get disconnected
bka'mawaa	disconnect smbs phone
bkaabiignikes'aa	yank smbs arm
bkaabiignikeshkooza	have ones arm
bkaagii	ruin ones health
bkaakbidoon	break sth 
bkaakbinaa	break sth an
bkaakde	be burnt out
bkaakza	be burnt out
bkaakzaan	burn through sth
bkaakzwaa	burn through sth
bkaan	another different differently
bkaanat	be another thing
bkaanendiza	think of oneself
bkaanenmaa	think of smb
bkaan'zi	be different be
bkade	be hungry
bkade'aa	keep smb hungry
bkamaa	cut sth an
bkan'kii	ruin ones health
bkandaan	cut sth by
bkanemaa	cut sth an
bkanendaan	cut sth in
bkawaa	break sth an
bkazhaawe	clean fish gut
bkazhwaa	clean sth an
bke	turn off the
bkebnaa	separate smb separate
bkebtoo	run off the
bkebza	drive off the
bkegaadese	turn off the
bkejwan	branch fork of
Bkejwanong	Walpole Island Ontario
bkekna	at the side
bkeknigan	unconsecrated place usually
bkema	branch divide fork
bkenaashkawaa	chase smb off
bkewdiwak	part ways go
bkewebshkaan	knock sth off
bkewebshkawaa	knock sthan off
bkeyaagmin'gan	cream separator
bkeyaagmin'ge	separate milk
bkeyaashi	fly off the
bkibdoon	break sth 
bkibdoon	pick sth of
bkibjige	break things of
bkibjige	pick fruit
bkibnaa	break sth an
bkibnaa	pick sth an
bkidaabiigshin	lie stretched over
bkidaabiigsin	lie stretched over
bkidaakgaadegoojin	have ones leg
bkidaakgaadeshin	have ones leg
bkidaakgoode	hang over something
bkidaakgoojin	hang over something
bkidaaknikegoojin	have ones arm
bkidaaknikeshin	have ones arm
bkidaakshin	lie stretched over
bkidaaksin	lie stretched over
bkidaaktaa	lean over something
bkidshimaa	place sth an
bkidshin	lean over the
bkidsidoon	place sth so
bkidsin	lean over the
bkigdoonewaa	cut smbs lip
bkiiwii	pull a muscle
bkiiywii	pull a muscle
bkijbidoon	pull sth up
bkijbinaa	pull sth an
bkijdaakiiyebza	crest a hill
bkijdiiyebi	sit with ones
bkijgaadegoojin	have ones legs
bkijjiwan	flow over something
bkikdaan	cut sth of
bkiknaa	cut sth an
bkinaage	win 
bkinaagen	win something
bkinwaa	beat smb in
bkishkaan	break sth with
bkishkwaa	break sth an
bkiteyaakshimaa	dash sth an
bkiteyaaksidoon	dash sth against
bkite'aan	beat sth hit
bkite'diwak	beat each other
bkite'gan	hammer
bkitendbe'ge	beat people on
bkitewaa	beat smb hit
bkizhaan	cut sth of
bkizhwaa	cut sth an
bko'gan	mound heap
bkobii-gaandsa'aa	shove smb into
bkobii-gaandsatoon	shove sth into
bkobiibde	fly into a
bkobiibtoo	run into the
bkobiibza	drive into the
bkobiidaabaadaan	drag sth into
bkobiidaabaanaa	drag sth an
bkobiigwaashkni	jump into water
bkobiinaa	put sth an
bkobiinaan	put sth into
bkobiise	fall into the
bkobiise	fall into the
bkobiiwebnaa	push smb into
bkobiiwebnamwaa	push smbs possession
bkobiiwebnige	throw things into
bkobiiyaabii	extend into the
bkobiiyaadgaa	wade into the
bkobiiyaadge	wade into the
bkodbi	perch sit up
bkodnii'gan	mound
bkodoone	have a swollen
bkodoonegdaaza	pout
bkodooneshkooza	have ones mouth
bkogoode	hang in a
bkojdoone	pout
bkojii'ooza	perch atop something
bkojiishin	lie in a
bkojiisin	lie in a
bkok	arrow stunning arrow
bkomsade	have a protruding
bkonaa	skin sth an
bkondbe	have messy hair
bkosgaa	have a hump
bkosgizi	have a bump
bkoshkaa	come off become
bkoshkaa	come off become
bkozi	have a bump
bkwaa	have a bump
bkwaabdebnaa	pull smbs tooth
bkwaabsaawe	blow out puffs
bkwaagma'aan	skim sth of
bkwaakbidoon	pull sth out
bkwaakbinaa	pull sth an
bkwaakdajiishin	lie curled up
bkwaakdo-bgamaagan	roundheaded club
bkwaakdoke	play baseball
bkwaakdoons	pill tablet
bkwaakdwe	play baseball
bkwaakninch	handful fistful
bkwaakninch	fist
bkwaakninjii	clench ones fist
bkwaakninjiini	clench ones fist
bkwaakninjiitaa	make a fist
bkwaakot	ball
bkwaakpii	have a hard
bkwaakwat	ball
bkwaandbebnaa	pull smbs hair
bkwaanmenjge	have great difficulty
bkwe'aan	chip a piece
bkwebdoon	break a piece
bkwebiigmi	be muddy of
bkwebnaa	break a piece
bkweboodoon	saw a piece
bkweboonaa	saw a piece
bkweg'asaan	wood chip
bkwegnaamaa	chip a piece
bkwegnaandaan	chip a piece
bkwekdaan	cut a piece
bkweknaa	cut a piece
bkwemaa	bite a piece
bkwen'ge	take a piece
bkwenaa	remove a part
bkwenaan	remove a part
bkwenbii	choke on water
bkwendaan	bite a piece
bkwene	be hazy be
bkwenenjgan	smudge bucket
bkweneyaa	be fogged up
bkweneyaabkat	be fogged up
bkweneyaabkise	fog up suddenly
bkweneyaagmi	be cloudy of
bkweneyaate	be hazy of
bkwenezgan	a mixture used
bkwenezge	smudge
bkwenjge	bite a piece
bkwenshkaagon	choke on sth
bkwenshkoonaa	make smb choke
bkwenshkooza	choke
bkwesdoon	chip sth by
bkweshin	have a piece
bkweshkaa	chip have a
bkweshkaa	chip have a
bkweshmaa	chip sth an
bkwesin	have a piece
bkwewaa	chip a piece
bkweyaabdeshin	chip ones tooth
bkweyaabdeshkaa	have ones tooth
bkweyaakshin	chip in striking
bkweyaaksin	chip in striking
bkweyaakzaan	cut a piece
bkweyaakzwaa	cut a piece
bkweyaashi	be broken off
bkwezaan	heat sth and
bkwezhaan	slice a piece
bkwezhgaans	cookie sweet roll
bkwezhgan	bread
bkwezhgan	bread
bkwezhganaaboo	a soup made
bkwezhge	slice a piece
bkwezhwaa	slice a piece
bkwezwaa	heat sth an
bma'gan	sour cream
bmaa	remove sth an
bmaabgo	float along on
bmaabi	look as people
bmaabii	extend across hanging
bmaabiigmowak	go by in
bmaabiignige	hold the reins
bmaaboode	float along float
bmaabooza	float along float
bmaadat	be alive
bmaadgaa	swim wade
bmaadge	swim wade
bmaadkiiwzi	have initiative show
bmaadwe	climb along climb
bmaadzi	be alive live
bmaagan	sour cream
bmaagnagii	walk along in
bmaagne	walk along in
bmaaj'aa	bring smb back
bmaakoon'gishin	lie extending across
bmaakoon'gisin	lie extending across
bmaakshin	lie extended out
bmaaksin	lie extended out
bmaakw'aan	nail sth across
bmaakwaa	nail sth an
bmaakwese	fall here and
bmaandwe	climb along climb
bmaangde	lie lie around
bmaangza	lie lie around
bmaanzhe	go along with
bmaashi	sail sail along
bmaasin	sail sail along
bmaawdoon	haul sth along
bmaawnaa	haul sth an
bmaawnidwak	parade
bmadema	go along crying
bmadnaa	run along run
bmagoode	topple over
bmagoojin	topple over
bmakmigaa	be a stretch
bmakmii	walk along on
bmaknaa	always leave smb
bmakzhiwe	go by canoe
bmanjge	snack eat in
bmawaa	remove something for
bmena	less diminished in
bmendiza	be out on
bmenmaa	care for smb
bmewaawzi	be the host
bmi-	come by and
bmi-gwinnaa	wrestle smb down
bmi-naabii	run along a
bmib'igo	go by horseback
bmib'iwe	be on the
bmibde	fly along fly
bmibdetoon	operate sth
bmibdoon	pull sth off
bmibnaa	pull sth an
bmiboodmawaa	plow something for
bmiboodoon	plow sth 
bmiboodwaa	plow something for
bmiboojgan	plow farm implement
bmiboojge	plow
bmiboojges'aa	shove smb so
bmiboonaa	plow sth an
bmibtoo	run run along
bmibza	drive along drive
bmibzoo'aa	drive sth an
bmibzoochge	drive
bmibzootmawaa	drive for smb
bmibzowin	fare for travel
bmidaabaadaan	drag sth drag
bmidaabaadmawaa	haul something for
bmidaabaan'go	ride in a
bmidaabaanaa	drag sth an
bmidaabaazhwe	drive a taxi
bmidaabii	haul things on
bmidaabiichge	have a horse
bmidaaknemaa	hold sth an
bmidaaknendaan	hold sth crosswise
bmidaakoon'gishin	be parked crosswise
bmidaakoon'gisin	lie crosswise of
bmide	grease lard oil
bmideyaabkat	be greasy be
bmideyaabkinaa	grease sth an
bmideyaabkinaan	grease sth lubricate
bmideyaabkizi	be greasy be
bmideyaan'giingwe	have an oily
bmideyaan'kwe	have greasy hair
bmideyiigat	be greasy be
bmideyiigzi	be greasy be
bmidkwebza	drive by go
bmidkweyaashi	go zooming by
bmidoosh	caterpillar any wormlike
bmidsaa	rafter canoe thwart
bmidsaan	canoe thwart structural
bmigdabi	move in ones
bmigdiiyebgiza	shake ones rear
bmigtaa	move ones body
bmigwii	move ones body
bmiitaage	attend to people
bmiitwaa	attend to smb
bmiiwzi	be in charge
bmijwan	flow of rivers
bmikdaan	remove sth by
bmiknaa	remove sth an
bmikwaan	gunwhale part of
bmikwaan	footprint track
bmikwe	leave footprints leave
bmikzhiwe	go by canoe
bmin'gaadaan	carry sth on
bmin'gaanaa	carry sth an
bminaa	support smb provide
bminaadzi	be fussy be
bminaashkaage	chase somebody chase
bminaashkawaa	chase smb run
bminaazh'ige	drive drive along
bmindiza	support oneself be
bminzha'aan	manage sth
bmisaadaan	walk sth of
bmise	go flying along
bmise	go around spread
bmisgaa	be a certain
bmishkaa	go along in
bmishkaa	come off become
bmishkaa	come off become
bmiwdaasa	carry a load
bmiwdoon	carry sth transport
bmiweb'ogo	float along in
bmiwebshkige	bicycle go by
bmiwjigaade	carry be successfully
bmiwnaa	carry sth an
bmiwne	carry things
bmiwnigoo	be an honourary
bmiwnigoo	be taken care
bmodaan	shoot sth with
bmoode	crawl along crawl
bmoodebtoo	scamper on all
bmoodes'aa	shove smb and
bmoodeshin	crawl involuntarily
bmoodeshmaa	shove smb into
bmoomaa	carry smb on
bmoomaawsa	carry ones baby
bmoomaawsawin	baby carrier
bmoomgo	ride on horseback
bmoon	remove sth take
bmoondaan	carry sth on
bmoonjgan	yoke for carrying
bmose	walk walk by
bmwaa	shoot smb with
bmwewdam	go by calling
bmwewebde	be heard driving
bmwewebza	be heard driving
bna	Come on 
bna	Look
bna'aan	take sth down
bna'doon	leave sth of
bna'naa	lose smbs trail
bnaa-yaa	go everywhere go
bnaabmaa	overlook smb fail
bnaabminaagot	fade from view
bnaabminaagzi	fade from view
bnaabndaan	overlook sth fail
bnaabtoo	run around all
bnaabza	drive around busily
bnaadat	spoil be ruined
bnaadendam	despair lose hope
bnaadkamgizi	ruin things spoil
bnaadshin	be spoiled of
bnaadsin	be spoiled of
bnaadzi	spoil be spoiled
bnaagaabwiwak	mill about
bnaaj'aa	ruin sth an
bnaajboodoon	ruin sth in
bnaajboonaa	ruin sth an
bnaajchige	spend money
bnaajtaagen	ruin something belonging
bnaajtamwaa	ruin something belonging
bnaajtoon	ruin sth spoil
bnaajtoon	spend sth
bnaakse	fall off something
bnaakwaan	comb
bnaakwe	harvest things that
Bnaakwe-giizis	LeavesFall Moon October
bnaakwii	lose leaves of
Bnaakwii-giizis	Harvest Moon October
bnaashi	be blown off
bnaasin	be blown off
bnaawoode	crawl around all
bnaazmaa	curse smb
Bnadiin	Bernadine name
bnagaabzhwaa	perform a cataract
bnagaakbidoon	peel the bark
bnagaakbijge	peel bark from
bnagaakbinaa	peel the bark
bnagaakw'aan	peel the bark
bnagaakw'ige	peel bark with
bnagaakwaa	peel the bark
bnagaakwaan	see bnagaakwaan
bnagaakwige	see bnagaakwige
bnagbidoon	peel sth using
bnagbinaa	peel sth an
bnagjiibdoon	peel sth using
bnagjiibnaa	peel sth an
bnagjiikdaan	peel sth with
bnagjiikjigan	peeler
bnagjiikjige	peel fruits or
bnagjiiknaa	peel sth an
bnagkodaan	cut the peel
bnagkonaa	cut the peel
bnagmaa	lose ones place
bnagnaamaa	miss hitting smb
bnagnaandaan	miss hitting sth
bnagndaan	lose ones place
bnagndaasa	lose ones place
bnagsha	Look
bnagzigan	kernel of hominy
bnagzige	heat things to
bnagzignaaboo	Indian corn soup
bnajaanh	nestling
bnangwaabiisin	be slack of
bnawaasa 	see
bnawaa	take sth an
bnaweb'aan	knock down sth
bnawebwaa	knock down sth
bne	partridge
bne	ruffed grouse
bneshiinh	bird
bneshiinygamik	birdhouse
bnesi	thunderbird  2
bnesi	eagle
bnga'an	throb
bnga'go	throb
bngan	be quiet outside
bnganaabse	blink
bngii	a few a
bngii	a few a
bngiishenh	a  little
bngisaasdoon	lose sth in
bngisaashmaa	lose smb in
bngisdoon	drop sth accidentally
bngise	fall moving along
bngishin	fall fall down
bngishmaa	drop sth 
bngishmo	set of celestial
bngishmok	west in the
bngisin	fall fall down
bngitoo	be suspiciously quiet
bngo'aan	dust sth with
bngo'ge	dust things with
Bngoonaang	Moraviantown Ont
bngowaa	dust sth an
bngwaashens	blackfly
bngwi	ashes
bni	Do it Get
bnibdoon	miss sth reaching
bnibgaa	be a state
bnibiiwye	shed fur
bnibnaa	miss sth an
bniizo	calve
bninaa	miss smb in
bnise	fall off
bnise	fall off
bnishe	hear something in
bniskbidoon	extend sth out
bniskbinaa	extend sth an
bniskgoodoon	hang sth all
bniskgoonaa	hang sth an
bniskgwaadaan	let sth down
bniskninjiinaa	open smbs clenched
bniskwaabiignaa	uncoil sth an
bniskwaabiignaan	uncoil sth unroll
bniskwaabiigse	unroll of strings
bniskwaabiigse	unroll of strings
bniskwaabiisin	lie uncoiled lie
bniskwaawdaasa	unpack things and
bniskwaawdoon	unpack sth and
bniskwaawnaa	unpack sth an
bniskwegnaa	spread sth an
bniskwegnaan	spread sth out
bnitam	hear about something
bniz'aa	cause smb to
bnizi	miss out on
bnwewesin	fade away fade
bod'ooza	sense missing of
bodyegwaazon	pants trousers
booch	anyway despite nevertheless
bood'ooza	have a red
boodaadaan	blow sth blow
boodaajgaans	whistle ref to
boodaajgan	horn
boodaajge	blow
boodaakwegwaashkni	jump into the
boodaakwenaa	dip sth an
boodaakwenaan	dip sth in
boodaakwenjiini	put ones hands
boodaakwese	fall into the
boodaakwese	fall into the
boodaakwewebnige	throw things into
boodaakwezdeni	put ones feet
boodaanaa	blow sth an
Boodewaadmii	Potawatomi Indian
boodoonh	pollywog tadpole
boodwaadaan	light a fire
boodwaade	be fired up
boodwaajgan	chimney
boodwaanaa	light a fire
boodwaaza	be fired up
boodwe	make a fire
boodwen	use sth as
boogdaagzi	fart from straining
boogdaaktaa	fart from bending
boogdaapi	fart from laughing
boogdi	fart
boogdinaama	fart from coughing
boogdingwaam	fart in ones
boogjibnaa	make smb fart
boogjibtoo	fart while running
boogjidaan	fart at sth
boogjinaa	fart at smb
boogjishkaagon	be made to
boogzikwaa	make smb fart
boojaabjin	get poked in
boojaabwaa	poke smb in
boojiingwe'gan	Indian bread baked
boojkwe'gan	muskrat spear
boojkweygan	muskrat spear
book'aan	break sth in
bookaan'gidoonegoojin	have ones mouth
bookbidmawaa	break something belonging
bookbidoon	break sth break
bookbinaa	break sth break
bookbiza	enter without knocking
bookboodoon	saw sth in
bookboonaa	saw sth an
bookdaamkagnegnaamaa	break smbs jaw
bookdaamkagneshin	break ones jaw
bookde'min	lemon
bookde'minaaboo	lemonade
bookdoonsh	pear fruit
bookdoowansh	pear tree
bookgaade	have a broken
bookgaadebnaa	break smbs leg
bookgaadegnaamaa	break smbs leg
bookgaadeshin	break ones leg
bookgaadeshkooza	get ones leg
bookgaadewaa	break smbs leg
bookganaamaa	break sth an
bookganaandaan	break sth by
bookgweshin	break ones neck
bookgweshkaa	have a broken
bookgweshkooza	get ones neck
bookiingwe	lose an eye
bookjaane	have a broken
bookjaaneshin	break ones nose
bookjiibdoon	break sth in
bookjiibnaa	break sth an
bookjiisdoon	break sth in
bookjiishmaa	break sth an
bookkodaan	break sth in
bookkonaa	break sth an
bookmaa	break sth an
bookndaan	break sth in
booknemaa	break sth an
booknendaan	break sth in
booknike	have a broken
booknikebnaa	break smbs arm
booknikeshin	break ones arm
booknikewaa	break smbs arm
bookningwiigneshin	break a wing
bookshimaa	break sth an
bookshkaa	be broken in
bookshkaa	be broke have
bookshkaa	be broken in
bookshkaan	break sth in
bookshkawaa	break sth an
booksidmawaa	break something belonging
booksidoon	break sth by
bookwaa	break sth an
bookwaabde	have broken teeth
bookwaabdegnaamaa	break smbs teeth
bookwaabdeshin	break ones teeth
bookwaabdeshkaagon	have ones tooth
bookwaakbidoon	break sth off
bookwaakbinaa	break sth an
bookwaaknaa	break a branch
bookwaaknaan	break a branch
bookwaanwe	have a broken
bookwaanweshin	break ones tail
bookwaashi	break in the
bookwaasin	break in the
bookwaawgan	have a broken
boome	calm down recover
boon'gidaaza	stop being angry
boon'gidetwaa	forgive smb
boon'kanjgan	anchor
boon'kaza	drop anchor
boon'kiise	dart down of
boon'kiiwaabiignaa	lower sth an
boon'kiiwaabiignaan	lower sth on
boon'kiiyaabte	blow downward of
boon'kiiyaanmat	blow downward 
boonaabi	stop looking
boonaabmaa	stop looking at
boonaabndaan	stop looking at
boonaaddaan	stop talking about
boonaagmandaan	stop drinking sth
boonaajmaa	stop talking about
boonaakgwe	get over a
boonaan'gidoon	cease talking stop
boonaanmat	stop blowing stop
boonaapi	stop laughing
boonaapne	have ones pain
boonam	lay an egg
boonbiisaa	stop raining
boondema	stop crying
boonendaan	stop brooding over
boonendam	stop brooding over
boonenmaa	stop brooding over
booni-	quit doing sth
boonii	alight land of
booniikaan	leave sth alone
booniikwaa	leave smb alone
boonmaa	stop harassing smb
boonpo	stop snowing
boonse	chicken hawk
boonse	sharpshinned hawk
boonskogzi	stop bleeding
boontaa	quit stop doing
boontaamgat	stop  of
boontoon	stop doing something
boonwewdam	stop hollering stop
boonzi	cease an activity
boopoodaajge	snort
booztoon	mail sth put
boosdoon	mail sth put
boosjige	mail something
booskaa	be a hollow
booskaabkishkaa	have a dent
booskaabkishkaa	have a dent
booskat	have a dent
booskdaamkan	have a dimpled
booskdinaa	be a valley
booskgwewe	have a hollow
boosknowe	have dimples in
booskzi	have a dent
bootaagan	mill mortar
bootaagnaatik	pestle
bootsan	boot
booz'aa	give smb a
booz'igon	be stung by
booz'iwemgat	sting of a
booz'oode	crawl aboard a
boozaande	be a deep
boozaanza	be a deep
boozbiza	drive onto a
boozhoo	Hello Greetings
boozi	board a vehicle
bsaabmaa	mistake smb seen
bsaabndaan	mistake sth seen
bsaan'kaan	ditch
bsadnaa	be a valley
bsagaak	board plank
bsakmigaa	be a depression
bsan'kide	be on fire
bsan'kiza	have a chimney
bsan'kizge	cause a chimney
bshaasginaa	scold smb severely
bshagii	have ones foreskin
bshagiibinaa	pull smbs foreskin
bshagiigbinaa	skin sth an
bshagiish-dbikat	be pitch black
bshagiishbikat	be pitch black
bshagiishkaabi	see black have
bshagiishkbiikte	be dark in
bshagiishkbikat	be dark out
bshagjiit	jerk obnoxious person
bshagnagek'aan	peel the bark
bshagnagekwaa	peel the bark
bshagnagekwe	peel bark
bshagzi	be a jerk
bshakiish-dbikat	be pitch black
bshanzhe'aan	strap sth whip
bshanzhe'gan	strap whip
bshanzhe'ganeyaatik	whipstock
bshanzhegan	strap whip
bshanzhewaa	strap smb whip
bshanzhe'ganaatik	whipstock
bshanzhe'ge	strap whip
bshanzhegewaasin	blow so hard
bshazhewaa	strap smb whip
bshig'aan	have sth held
bshigbidoon	drop sth accidentally
bshigbinaa	drop sth an
bshigboodoon	miss sth in
bshigboonaa	miss sth an
bshigdabi	miss ones seat
bshigendaagot	be likeable be
bshigendaagzi	be likeable be
bshigendaan	like sth find
bshigenmaa	like smb find
bshigganaamaa	swing at sth
bshigganaandaan	miss sth in
bshigiish-dbikat	be pitch black
bshigkamii	have ones foot
bshigkamiise	have ones foot
bshigkodaan	miss sth in
bshigkonaa	miss sth an
bshigmaa	miss in biting
bshignaa	drop sth an
bshignaan	drop sth accidentally
bshignamaakwii	have ones grip
bshigndaan	miss in biting
bshignemaa	have sth an
bshignendaan	have sth slip
bshigshimaa	miss in trying
bshigshkaan	miss in kicking
bshigshkawaa	miss in kicking
bshigsidoon	miss in trying
bshigwaa	have sth held
bshigwaadendam	think sinful thoughts
bshigwaadzi	lead a life
bshigwaakwaadaan	graze sth shooting
bshigwaakwaanaa	graze sth an
bshigwaandwese	have ones foot
bshigzhaan	miss sth in
bshigzhwaa	miss sth an
bshiibnaa	skin sth an
bshiidooskneshin	scrape ones elbow
bshiigaadeshin	scrape ones leg
bshiigdigweshin	scrape ones knee
bshiijaaneshin	scrape ones nose
bshiin'keshin	scrape ones arm
bshiingweshin	scrape ones face
bshiinjiishin	scrape ones hand
bshizhewaa	strap smb whip
bshkidaashkshin	lean over something
bshkobdoon	pluck sth pull
bshkobiiswaa	dehair sth an
bshkobiiyebnaa	pluck feathers from
bshkobiiyeshkaa	lose fur molt
bshkobjige	husk corn
bshkobnaa	pluck sth an
bshkodnaa	be barren be
bshkojiibnaa	pluck feathers off
bshkojiizhge	shear an animal
bshkojiizhwaa	shear sth an
bshkonaage	miss with a
bshkonaajge	miss with a
bshkonaan	miss in shooting
bshkondbe	be bald
bshkondbebnaa	pull smbs hair
bshkondbeshkaa	go bald lose
bshkonwaa	miss in shooting
bshkoshkaa	come off of
bshkoshkaa	come off of
bshkozhaan	cut sth mow
bshkozhgan	mower
bshkozhge	cut grass cut
bshkozhmawaa	cut grass for
bshkozi	be featherless be
bshkwaakwe'ge	clearcut deforest
bshkwaan'kweshkaa	go bald lose
bshkwegaans	condom
bshkwegin	leather piece of
bshkwegni-biiskawaagan	leather coat
bsidyegnaamaa	spank smb
bsidyeshkwaa	kick smb in
bsijii'aan	hit a foul
bsijiignaamaa	graze smb in
bsijiignaandaan	graze sth in
bsijiishkwenh	killdeer kind of
bsikaage	have a car
bsikaan	bump into sth
bsikwaa	bump into smb
bsikwebzowin	halo
bsimsadeshkwaa	hit smb in
bsishkawaa	hit smb in
bsitaan	be offended by
bsitam	be offended by
bsitwaa	be offended by
bskaabaadgaa	swim back wade
bskaabaadge	swim back wade
bskaabaashi	sail back
bskaabaasin	sail back
bskaabba'we	turn back to
bskaabbagza	jerk back
bskaabbatoo	run back
bskaabbide	come back come
bskaabbiza	come back drive
bskaabganaamaa	hit sth an
bskaabganaandaan	hit sth back
bskaabii	come back get
bskaabkozhwe	paddle back
bskaabnaa	return sth an
bskaabnaan	return sth as
bskaabnaashkaan	send sth back
bskaabnaashkawaa	send sth an
bskaabnaazhkaan	send sth back
bskaabnaazhkawaa	send sth an
bskaabwebnaa	throw sth an
bskaabwebnaan	throw sth back
bskaabwebnamwaa	throw something back
bskaabwidmawaa	bring something back
bskaabwidoon	bring sth back
bskaabwinaa	bring sth an
bskaaknenjgan	kindling
bskaaknese	emit a spark
bskagnaamaa	bend sth an
bskagnaandaan	bend sth by
bskane	catch fire ignite
bskane	catch fire ignite
bskane'aa	cause sth an
bskanebdoon	turn sth on
bskanebjige	turn on lights
bskanebnaa	turn sth an
bskanepwaa	light up a
bskanepwaagne	light up pipe
bskanesdoon	strike a match
bskanetoon	cause sth to
bskaneyaashi	flare up in
bskibdoon	bend sth with
bskibnaa	bend sth an
bskigaadebi	sit with ones
bskigaadeni	bend ones leg
bskigaadetaa	bend ones leg
bskigwaadaan	hem sth up
bskigwaanaa	hem sth an
bskiignaa	fold sth an
bskiignaan	fold sth of
bskiigshin	lie folded
bskiigsin	lie folded
bskikaa	become bent bend
bskikaa	become bent bend
bskin'keni	bend ones arm
bskin'ketaa	bend ones arm
bskinaa	bend sth an
bskinaan	bend sth fold
bskisdoon	arrange sth so
bskishmaa	arrange sth an
bswepgot	permeate something of
bswepgozi	permeate something of
btaakiingweshin	bump ones face
btaakiingweshkwaa	bump smb in
btaakninjiishin	bump ones hand
btaakshimaa	bump sth an
btaakshin	bump against something
btaakshkaage	collide with somebody
btaakshkaan	bump into sth
btaakshkawaa	bump into smb
btaaksin	bump against something
btaakw'aan	hit sth with
btaakwaa	hit sth an
btaakwaan	hit sth with
btaakzhe	be naked
btaakzideshin	hit ones foot
btagnaamaa	hit smb accidentally
btagnaandaan	hit sth accidentally
btagndamaadwak	get into an
btamaa	ingest sth an
btandaan	ingest sth accidentally
btangbide	change course turn
btangbiza	change course turn
btashkaanzhe	common snipe a
btashkwe	pick the wrong
btazhe	be naked
bte	give off smoke
btinaa	take sth an
btinaan	take sth in
bwa'aan	harvest sth with
bwa'aan	dust sth off
bwa'gan	ricegathering place
Bwa'ganing	ricegathering place near
bwaa-	lest not so
bwaadaan	dream about sth
bwaajge	dream have a
bwaanaa	dream about smb
bwaanwi'aa	fail to budge
bwaanwibdoon	fail to budge
bwaanwibnaa	fail to budge
bwaanwitoon	try in vain
bwaatmaach	gradually
bwaayaak	white ash type
bwan'kin'ge	clean stove pipes
bwen	roast something put
bwen'ge	work up a
bweyaaknige	have sweat dripping
bweza	perspire sweat
bwi	propeller
bwi	paddle
bwiins	fan implement used
bwiins	small fan
bzaan	quietly
bzaan	burdock a type
bzaanaagmisin	be calm of
bzaanaakshin	lie still lie
bzaanaakwaa	be still of
bzaanbi	sit still
bzaandabi	sit still
bzaandooneshin	stop yapping
bzaangaabwi	stand still
bzaani-	quietly in the
bzaanshin	lie still lie
bzaante	be quiet of
bzaan-yaa	be quiet be
bzagde	be cooked to
bzagjiishkwigaa	be sticky mud
bzagninjii	have sticky hands
bzagninjiishin	get something sticky
bzagsagaa	be sticky 
bzagwaa	be sticky
bzagwaakmin	white sugar plum
bzagwegat	be sticky of
bzagwegzi	be sticky of
bzagwii	get up rise
bzagwiindaakji	be forced to
bzagwiindkishin	get up and
bzagwiindoode	crawl out of
bzagwiinjgwaashkni	jump up to
bzagwiinjnaashkawaa	order smb to
bzagwiinse	jump up quickly
bzagzi	be sticky
bzagzideshin	get something sticky
bzangwaabgaa	dance with ones
bzangwaabi	close ones eyes
bzangwaabshkaa	be unable to
bzazi	be clumsy be
bzhib'aan	spear sth stab
bzhibwaa	spear sth an
bzhidoonh	sheepshead a kind
bzhiki	cow
bzhikii-zowaanak	oxtail
bzhikiins	calf
bzhikiiwgamik	cow shed
bzhindoon	endanger sth threaten
bzhine	escape harm narrowly
bzhinnaa	chastise smb give
bzhishgokmigaa	be empty of
bzhishgon	be empty of
bzhishgonaa	empty sth an
bzhishgonaan	empty sth
bzhishgonjii	be emptyhanded
bzhishgoshin	lie empty sit
bzhishgosin	lie empty sit
bzhishgozi	be empty
bzhishgwaakte	be empty of
bzhishik	just like 
bzhishin	be emptyhanded
bzhiw	lynx
bzigwii	get up rise
bzigwiindaakji	be forced to
bzigwiindkishin	get up and
bzigwiindoode	crawl out of
bzigwiinjbagza	get up quickly
bzigwiinjgwaashkni	jump up to
bzigwiinjnaashkawaa	order smb to
bzigwiinse	jump up quickly
bzin	get something in
bzindaage	listen to discussions
bzindaajge	listen to discussions
bzindaan	listen to sth
bzindam	listen  2
bzindwaa	listen to smb
bzinshe	listen in
bzobnaakwaan	nit comb
bzobzo	get caught on
bzogeshin	stumble trip
bzogeshkwaa	trip smb
bzogshkaa	be sticky
bzogwebwaa	trip smb with
bzoshkaa	stumble trip
bzwaabi	have weakened eyesight
bzwaabiisdoon	wind sth around
bzwaabiishkaan	trip over sth
bzwaabiishkwaa	trip over sth
bzwebshkaan	trip on sth
bzwebshkawaa	trip on sth
bzwendaan	think sth unfit
bzwenmaa	think sth an
chaakiidyebtoo	run with a
chaakiidyeshin	limp
chaakiishin	limp
chaashin	limp
chaawse	walk with a
chaawsebtoo	run lame
chaawshin	limp
chigaade	be placed somewhere
chigaaza	be placed in
Crossdeyaatik	Cross Village Michigan
Da'ooganing	South Bay Ontario
da-	shall will
daa	live in a
daa-	can could ought
daabaan	car wagon
daabaan	car wagon
daabaan'gamik	garage
daabaanaatik	runner on a
daabaanens	hand sled
daabshkaa	have convulsions have
daabshkaa	shrink
daabshkoog'aan	hew sth square
daabyaan	car wagon
daadbidoon	pull on sthand
daadbinaa	pull on sthan
daadboodoon	saw on sth
daadboonaa	saw on sth
daadkogwaade	be sewn together
daadkogwaajgan	quilt
daadkogwaaza	be sewn together
daadshimaa	drop sth an
daadshkaan	cause sth to
daadshkawaa	cause sth an
daadsidoon	drop sth and
daadzhaan	cut sth and
daadzhwaa	cut sth an
daagnadaag	really
daajgo'on?	a type of
daakaadaan	steer sth
daakaajgan	rudder
daakaan	steering wheel
daakaanaa	steer sth an
daakan	rudder
daake	steer drive
daakewnini	driver helmsman ships
daamaa	sell something to
daan	refer to sth
daang'aan	touch sth with
daangaabiisin	touch something of
daangbidoon	stroke sth
daangbinaa	stroke smb
daangga'aan	feel around for
daanggawaa	feel around for
daanggwewenaa	touch smb on
daanggwiiwenaa	touch smb on
daangkiishin	touch the ground
daangkiisin	touch the ground
daangmaa	feel sth an
daangnaa	touch smb
daangnaan	touch sth
daangnamwaa	touch something belonging
daangndaan	feel sth with
daangshin	touch something of
daangshkaan	touch sth with
daangshkamwaa	touch something belonging
daangshkawaa	touch sth an
daangshkoodmawaa	brush something against
daangshkoodoon	brush something against
daangshkoonaa	brush something against
daangsin	touch something
daangwaa	touch sth an
daangzidenaa	touch smbs foot
daangzideshkwaa	touch smbs foot
daanzhebdoon	dim the lights
daanzhebjige	dim the lights
daanzhebnaa	dim the lights
daanzhen'ge	dim the lights
daanzhenaa	dim the lights
daanzhenaan	dim the lights
daanzhewebdoon	dim the lights
daanzhewebjige	dim the lights
daanzhewebnaa	dim the lights
daanzhewen'ge	dim the lights
daanzhewenaa	dim the lights
daanzhewenaan	dim the lights
daapbiza	have convulsions have
daapenmaa	accept smb take
daapgaadebnigo	get a leg
daapgaadeshkaa	get a leg
daapgwaadaan	pick sth up
daapgwaanaa	pick sth an
daapnaa	pick sth an
daapnaan	pick sth up
daapnamoo'aa	get smb to
daapnamwaa	take something for
daapnige	pick things up
daapnigenaa	get smb to
daapsen	snatch something up
daapshkaa	have convulsions have
daapshkadebnigo	get cramps have
daapzideshkaa	get a cramp
{n}daas	sock stocking 
daashk'aan	split sth with
daashk'ose	chop wood split
daashkaabiig'ige	have ones hair
daashkaabiig'igeyaa	part smbs hair
daashkaabkaa	have a crack
daashkaakw'aan	split sth of
daashkaakwaa	split sth an
daashkaakwaan	see daashkaakwaan
daashkaakzaan	split sth with
daashkaakzwaa	split sth an
daashkaasdoon	throw a curveball
daashkbidoon	split sth with
daashkbinaa	split sth an
daashkboodoon	saw sth in
daashkboojgan	saw sawmill
daashkboojge	saw ripsaw
daashkboonaa	saw sth an
daashkdewe'aa	break smbs heart
daashkdewewendam	be brokenhearted
daashkdiiyaandaan	split sth from
daashkga'aan	split sth with
daashkga'gan	wedge
daashkganaamaa	split sth an
daashkganaandaan	split sth by
daashkga'se	chop wood split
daashkgawaa	split sth an
daashkiigaashi	be ripped in
daashkiigaasin	be ripped in
daashkiigbidoon	rip sth in
daashkiigbinaa	rip sth an
daashkiignaa	split sth an
daashkiignaan	split sth of
daashkjii'aan	split sth in
daashkjiignaamaa	split sth an
daashkjiignaandaan	split sth by
daashkjiikdaan	cut sth in
daashkjiiknaa	cut sth an
daashkjiisdoon	split sth by
daashkjiishkaan	split sth by
daashkjiishkwaa	split sth an
daashkjiishmaa	split sth an
daashkjiiwaa	split sth an
daashkkamgise	split from a
daashkkodaan	split sth in
daashkkonaa	split sth an
daashkmaa	split sth an
daashknaa	divide sth an
daashknaan	divide sth in
daashkndaan	split sth by
daashknemaa	split sth an
daashknendaan	split sth in
daashkse	split in two
daashkse	split in two
daashkshimaa	split sth an
daashkshkaan	split sth by
daashkshkawaa	split sth an
daashksidoon	split sth by
daashkwaa	split sth an
daashkzaan	split sth by
daashkzhaan	split sth in
daashkzhwaa	split sth an
daashkzwaa	split sth an
daaskaan	second sth of
daaskawi	keep good company
daataagninjiishkoonaa	drop something on
daataagninjiishkwaa	step on smbs
daataagzideshkoonaa	drop something on
daataagzideshkwaa	step on smbs
daatbaan'gidoon	speak rapidly talk
daatganaabi	look up
daatganaabmaa	look up at
daatganaabndaan	look up at
daatgijiigaabwi	stand with ones
daatgikweni	tilt ones head
Daawaa	Odawa Indian Ottawa
daawe	sell sell things
daawegamik	store trading post
daawen	sell something
daawenini	male store clerk
daaweniniikwe	female store clerk
daawewgamik	store trading post
daawewnini	male store clerk
daawmaa	borrow something from
daawnabnaa	open smbs mouth
daawnagoojin	have ones mouth
daawnge	borrow rent
daawngen	borrow something
daawni	open ones mouth
daayaa	come out of
daayaapne	drown
dagaabaawdoon	soften sth by
dagaabaawe	soften from being
dagaabaawe	soften from being
dagaabaawnaa	soften sth an
dagat	be damp
daggwiinjdoon	soak sth to
daggwiinjmaa	soak sth an
dagoode	fall
dagoojin	fall
dakiimi	have land own
dam'aa	keep smb busy
dami-	be busy with
damiikaan	be busy with
damiikwaa	be busy with
damna	play games
damnan	play with something
damnawaagan	doll
damnawaagan	doll
damnawin	toy
damtaa	be busy
damzi	be busy
danaamtaan	inhale sth particulate
dap	species of willow
dash	and so and
{n}dasnaake	my brisket of
datgaagmin	blackberry thimbleberry
Datgaagmin-giizis	Blackberry Moon August
datgaagon	driveshaft  2
dawemaawndiwak	be brother and
dawgomek	salamander
dawkaani	have livestock own
dayi	have a dog
dba'aan	pay for sth
dba'gaans	minute  2
dba'gaans	hour
dba'gan	hour  2
dba'ge	pay
dba'genshiish	inchworm
dba'gesemgat	break even meet
dba'getmawaa	measure something for
dba'giiswaagan	clock watch timepiece
dba'giiswaan	clock
dba'giiswaan	hour
dba'giiswaanens	watch wristwatch
dba'mawaa	pay smb 
dbaabiignaa	measure the length
dbaabiignaan	measure the length
dbaabiishkoodoon	weigh sth
dbaabiishkoojgan	pound  2
dbaabiishkoojge	weigh things
dbaabiishkoonaa	weigh sth an
dbaabmaa	check on smb
dbaabndaan	check on sth
dbaabndakwe	forecast weather look
dbaabndamaaza	 look out
dbaabndamwaa	check on something
dbaabnjigewnini	field umpire
dbaaddaan	talk about sth
dbaadendaan	care for sth
dbaadenmaa	care for smb
dbaajma	narrate report talk
dbaajmaa	talk about smb
dbaajmatwaa	tell smb about
dbaajmoo-mzin'igan	newspaper
dbaajmowin	narrative story
dbaajndaan	talk about sth
dbaaknaa	judge smb try
dbaaknige	determine what to
dbaaknigeniniikwe	female judge
dbaaknigewnini	male judge
dbaakshin	be on a
dbaaksin	be on a
dbakaadaan	survey sth
dbakii	survey land
dbakiinini	surveyor
dbas'ooza	be suspended low
dbasaa	be low in
dbasaadaan	measure the length
dbasaanaa	measure the length
dbasdoondneyaa	be lowheeled have
dbasendiza	be humble think
dbasenmaa	think lowly of
dbasgoode	hang low
dbasgoojin	hang low
dbashish	low down below
dbasshkaa	be low grass
dbaszi	be low in
dbawaa	pay for sth
dbazii	duck
dbendaagot	belong somewhere go
dbendaagzi	belong somewhere 
dbendaan	own sth
dbendaaswin	property
dbendiza	be free be
dbenmaa	own sth an
dbewgendaan	be mindful of
dbewgenmaa	be mindful of
dbi	where wherever dubitative
dbik-	night
dbik-giizis	moon
dbikat	be dark be
dbikoong	last night
dbikshin	have night fall
dbinnjaamaa	measure sth an
dbinnjaandaan	measure sth in
dbinooshin	take shelter from
dbinooshmaa	put sth an
dbinwaa	be sheltered from
dbishkaa	have a birthday
dbishkoo	as like
dbishkoose	mark a certain
dbiyiidok	wherever I dont
dbizdaamaa	measure sth an
dbizdaandaan	measure sth in
dbizhaan	measure sth
dbizhge	measure
dbizhwaa	measure sth an
dboosk-naagan	bowl
dboosko-yaa	be deep of
ddaaknagweyaa	be shortsleeved have
ddaakoogaade	have short legs
ddaakoon'ke	have short arms
ddaakoozde	have short feet
ddakoozde	have feet of
ddakwaakdiiyewji	have cold rear
ddakwaakninjiiwji	have cold hands
ddakwaakzidewji	have cold feet
ddanaaskone	shine away keep
ddanoojtoo	hang around loiter
ddanwewe	play away keep
ddanzi	stay put somewhere
ddibew	shore riverbank near
ddibewe	go along the
ddibewebtoo	run along the
ddibewebza	drive along the
ddibewemat	follow the shore
ddibeweyaak'om	walk along the
dditbijiinaa	roll sth an
dditbijiinaan	roll sth 
dditbijiise	roll involuntarily
dditbijiise	roll 
dditbijiiyebnaa	roll sth an
dditbijiiyebnaan	roll sth to
de-	fair amount moderate
de-	be able to
de-pii	fair distance considerable
deb'aa	do something apt
debaabmaa	see smb at
debaabminaagot	be visible in
debaabminaagwat	be visible in
debaabminaagzi	be visible in
debaabndaan	see sth at
debaabndang	umpire
debaakmajiishkaan	have sth fit
debbidmawaa	catch something for
debbidoon	catch sth get
debbidwaa	catch something for
debbinaa	catch sth an
Debenjget	Creator God
debgenmo	have had enough
debgwaam	get enough sleep
debjiiyaabaagwe	be filled to
debkwaabiigse	reach somewhere of
debkwaabiigse	reach somewhere of
debmaa	say something of
debnaa	get sth an
debnaabaagwe	have ones thirst
debnaak	carelessly negligently sloppily
debnaan	get sth receive
debnaknooza	have smoked enough
debnakza	have smoked enough
debnawaa	reach sth an
debnemaa	have enough of
debnendaan	have enough of
debnige	reach somewhere be
debse	be enough suffice
debse	be enough suffice
debsen	have enough of
debshkaan	fit sth
debshkawaa	fit sth an
debsinii	be full from
debtaagot	be heard in
debtaagwat	be heard in
debtaagzi	be heard in
debtaan	hear sth in
debtawaa	hear smb in
debwe	be right speak
debwe'aa	give in to
debwemgat	be true
debwetaan	believe sth
debwetam	believe
debwetwaa	believe smb
debwewaashkaa	be audible in
debwewdam	be heard calling
debwewe	sound in the
debwewe	sound in the
debwewegneshin	be heard ticking
debwewenaama	be heard breathing
debwewendaagot	be credible be
debwewendaagzi	be considered a
debwewendaan	believe in sth
debwewendam	believe
debwewenmaa	believe in smb
debweweshin	ring in the
debwewesin	ring in the
debwewnagat	be true of
debweyaan'gidoon	be heard talking
debzi	be so fortunate
detebkinaak	softshell turtle
dekaashiinh	tourist vacationer
dekwendam	be under mental
dende	bullfrog
dendemo	croak like a
dendenh	bullfrog
desbiwaagan	chair
desgaan	deck of a
deshkan	antler horn
desiigbidoon	stretch sth out
desiigbinaa	stretch sth an
desiignaa	spread sth an
desiignaan	spread sth out
desiigsa'aa	throw sth an
desiigshimaa	arrange sth an
desiigsidoon	arrange sth so
desiigwebnaa	throw sth an
desiigwebnaan	throw sth down
desiikwaan	broadbrimmed hat widebrimmed
desnaagan	plate platter
detbisenh	tire wheel of
detebgwiinde	bob float
detebgwiinjin	bob float
detese	rustle of leaves
detesiigtawge	have flappy ears
detesiigzidegaa	dance with ones
detewaakwige	knock on door
detewganaamaa	thump sth an
detewganaandaan	thump sth repeatedly
detewjii'aan	thump sth repeatedly
detewjiiwaa	thump sth an
dewaabiiggaade	have ones legs
dewaabiigmasde	have a sore
dewaabiigndibe	have an aching
dewaabiignike	have ones arms
dewaabiigwewe	have ones neck
dewaakgane	have ones bones
dewaapne	have heart disease
dewe	sense missing
dewe'gan	drum
dewe'gan	drum
dewe'ganaatik	drumstick
dewe'ge	drum
dewgwewe	have ones neck
dewgwiiwe	have ones neck
dewjii'aan	thump sth
dewjiignaamaa	thump smb
dewjiignaandaan	thump sth
dewjiishin	land on something
dewjiiwaa	thump sth an
dewkaaknegnaamaa	strike smb thumping
dewkaaknewaa	thump smb in
dewkwe	get a headache
dewkwendbeyaasa	get a headache
dewkweshkaagon	be given a
dewmaa	worry about smbs
dewmin	strawberry
Dewmin-giizis	Strawberry Moon June
dewndaan	worry about sth
dewnike	have ones arms
dga	Come on
dgandaan	taste sth
dgi	have something wrong
dgo	exist naturally in
dgo-	along with others
dgobde	fly off with
dgobdoon	tie sth with
dgobi	sit with others
dgobnaa	tie sth an
dgobza	drive off with
dgogaabwi	stand with others
dgogi	grow with others
dgogin	grow with others
dgojii'aan	mix sth in
dgojiinaa	hold sth an
dgojiinaan	hold sth along
dgojiiwaa	mix sth an
dgoksaan	solder sth
dgoksige	solder
dgokswaa	solder sth an
dgomaa	eat sth an
dgon'ge	include things in
dgonaa	include sth an
dgonaan	include sth as
dgondaan	eat sth along
dgopde	be tied in
dgopdoon	tie sth with
dgopnaa	tie sth an
dgopza	be tied in
dgoshin	arrive reach a
dgoshnoomgat	arrive
dgosin	be included with
dgow	wave of water
dgowdoon	carry sth along
dgowebnaa	throw sth an
dgowebnaan	throw sth along
dgownaa	carry sth along
dgozaan	cook sth along
dgozwaa	cook sth an
dgwaadmawaa	allege that smb
dgwaagi	be autumn be
dgwaakde	burn with other
dgwaakza	burn with other
dgwaapnemaa	quarrel with smb
dgwaawnginaan	include sth as
dgwamwaa	eat sth an
dgwandaan	eat sth along
dibaakaang	in the woods
dibaakiing	in the woods
dibiiiidik 	I dont know
diindiisiinh	bluejay
dikmek	whitefish
dikmi	have fleas have
dkinaagan	cradleboard
diksin	curdle
dimne'aan	catch up to
dimne'ge	catch up to
dimnewaa	catch up to
dis'aa	visit smb of
disge	colour dye things
disiiyaap	umbilical cord
diyaawi	be an ass
dkaa	be cold to
dkaabaawe	be cool from
dkaabaawza	cool off in
dkaabkat	be cold of
dkaabkizi	be cold of
dkaaboo	cold water
dkaagmi	be cold of
dkaagmisdoon	chill sth cool
dkaagmishkooza	cool off with
dkaakninjiiwji	have ones hands
dkaanmat	blow cold be
dkaashi	be mildly inebriated
dkaashiikmigat	be a party
dkaashiiwgamik	tourist lodge
dkaasjige	let the cold
dkaawgan	be cold in
dkaawganeyaashi	get chilled by
dkajdoon	get sth infected
dkaji	catch a cold
dkajmaa	cause smb to
dkajwin	cold flu pneumonia
dkakmigaa	be cold of
dkam'aa	cross go across
dkam'aadaan	cross over on
dkam'aanaa	cross over on
dkamaabiigaashi	dash across streak
dkamaabiigshin	lie across of
dkamaabiigsin	lie across of
dkamaabno	cross in a
dkamaadgaa	swim across wade
dkamaakse	swing across a
dkamaakshimaa	lay sth an
dkamaakshin	lie across of
dkamaaksidoon	lay sth across
dkamaaksin	lie across of
dkamaakw'om	cross a forest
dkamaakwese	fall across of
dkamaashi	blow across be
dkamaasin	blow across be
dkamaawdaaso	move things across
dkamaawdoon	haul sth across
dkamaawnaa	haul sth an
dkambatoo	run across
dkamboowe	escape to other
dkamgwaashkni	jump across
dkamii	cross go across
dkamkana	across the road
dkamkomii	cross the ice
dkamoode	crawl across
dkamoodegzi	move ones residence
dkamoojiige	take a shortcut
dkamoojiigebtoo	take a shortcut
dkamse	walk across
dkamwidoon	carry sth across
dkamwinaa	carry sth an
dkate	be cold of
dkawaasnenjgan	flashlight
dkeyaa	be cool of
dkibi	spring of water
dkibiigji	get cold all
dkidyeshin	have ones rear
dkigaadeyaashi	get cold in
dkigweweyaashi	get cold in
dkiingwe	have a cold
dkijiiyaabaawe	get cold from
dkijiiyaashi	get cold from
dkindbeyaabaawe	have ones head
dkindbeyaashi	get cold in
dkingshi	doze off
dkinjii	have cold hands
dkinjiiwji	have ones hands
dkinjiiyaabaawe	have ones hands
dkisdoon	cool sth leave
dkishin	cool get cold
dkishmaa	cool sth an
dkisin	cool get cold
dkizde	have cold feet
dkizdeyaabaawe	have ones feet
dkizi	be cold to
dkobde	be tied up
dkobdoon	tie sth
dkobjigan	tieon skates 
dkobjige	tie ones shoelaces
dkobnaa	tie sth an
dkobza	be tied up
dkokaadaan	step on sth
dkokaadmawaa	step on something
dkokaanaa	step on sth
dkokii	take a step
dkomaa	bite smb bite
dkon'keshkooza	be caught by
dkonaa	hold smb off
dkonaan	hold sth off
dkondaan	bite sth bite
dkonge	bite things bite
dkonjgan	pliers tweezers
dkonjge	bite things
dkonmawaa	seize something belonging
dkonwe	make an arrest
dkonwewgamik	jail
dkonwewnini	policeman sheriff
dkonwewniniikwe	policewoman
dkooboodoon	saw sth short
dkooboonaa	saw sth an
dkoogwaadaan	sew sth short
dkoogwaanaa	sew sth an
dkoojiiyaa	be short of
dkookdaan	cut sth short
dkooknaa	cut sth an
dkoonaa	shorten sth an
dkoonaan	shorten sth make
dkoonmawaa	shorten something for
dkooyaa	be short
dkoozi	be short in
dkopjigan	bundle
dkwaa	be short in
dkwaa'aa	make sth an
dkwaabii'aa	make sth an
dkwaabiigat	be short of
dkwaabiiggaade	have short legs
dkwaabiiggaadeyaa	be short in
dkwaabiigkodaan	cut sth short
dkwaabiigkonaa	cut sth an
dkwaabiignaa	make sth an
dkwaabiignaan	make sth short
dkwaabiignamwaa	shorten something stringlike
dkwaabiigzi	be short of
dkwaabiitmawaa	shorten something stringlike
dkwaabiitoon	make sth short
dkwaakboodoon	cut sth short
dkwaakboonaa	cut sth an
dkwaakot	be short of
dkwaakwat	be short of
dkwaakzi	be short of
dkwaan'kwe	have short hair
dkwaatmawaa	shorten something for
dkwaatoon	make sth short
dkwamaa	bite smb bite
dkwandaan	bite sth bite
dkwanjge	bite things
dkweg'aa	make sth an
dkwegat	be short of
dkweggwaadaan	sew sth to
dkwegkodaan	cut sth short
dkwegkonaa	cut sth an
dkwegtoon	make sth short
dkwegzi	be short of
dkwegpiza	wear a short
dkwiindgwaanh	be shallow of
dkwiindmaa	be shallow of
dnaabooza	drink at a
dnaaddaan	relate sth being
dnaagen	use something as
dnaajma	relate something pertaining
dnaajmaa	relate smb being
dnaan'gidoon	speak talk give
dnaan'gidooni	speak talk give
dnaan'gidoonwin	talk gossip
dnaapi	laugh at a
dnaatesin	be broadcast from
dnakii	live on a
dnakiiwin	town residence settlement
dnakmigat	happen at a
dnakmigzi	play in a
dnakmigziwin	game activity
dnawa	kind sort
dnawa	kind sort
dnendaan	expect sth expect
dnenmaa	expect smb expect
dngamaa	taste sth an
dngishkaage	kick out at
dngishkaan	kick sth
dngishkge	kick  2
dngishkmawaa	kick something belonging
dngishkwaa	kick smb
dnide	be cooking in
dnikaa	take a certain
dnin	own something possess
dningwaam	sleep in a
dningwaamo	sleep in a
dniza	be cooking in
dnizaan	cook sth in
dnizekwe	do cooking in
dnizgan	baking pan
dnizi	board somewhere live
dnizwaa	cook sth an
dnow	kind sort
dnwewdam	cry out from
dnwewe	sound from a
dnwewe	sound from a
dnwewechge	play music at
doodaan	do something reprehensible
doodam	do something reprehensible
doodem-mtik	totem pole
doodgoneyaap	shoelace
doodmawaa	do something to
doodoonaa	nurse smb
{n}doodoosh	nipple womans breast
{n}doodoosh	nipple womans breast
doodooshaaboo	milk
doodooshens	mans nipple Wk
doodooshmebzowin	bra
doodooshmekaajgan	bra
doodwaa	do something reprehensible
doopon	eat from something
doopwin	table
doopwiniigin	tablecloth
dooskaabi	have ones eyes
dooskaabshin	lie with ones
{n}dooskweyaap	my bloodvein my
dootoogan	be soft and
dooyaabiignigan	violin
dpaabi	look through an
dpaabmaa	pop in on
dpaakgaa	leak typically of
dpaakse	fall through in
dpaanzhe	shine through of
dpaasge	shine through of
dpaazhgaa	pour through an
dpagnaamaa	punch sth an
dpagnaandaan	punch sth through
dpakii	sprout of plants
dpakii	sprout  of
dpamo	go through of
dpashkaa	be wet of
dpibde	fly through an
dpibgo	have ones bowels
dpibza	fly through an
dpigaa	seep through
dpiingwetwaa	pop in on
dpijwan	flow through an
dpikweni	stick ones head
dpinaa	pass sth an
dpinaan	pass sth through
dpinnaa	kill smb in
dpishkaan	break through sth
dpizwin	apron
dpoode	crawl through an
dpwewe	be heard through
dpwewe	be heard through
dpweweshin	sound through an
dpwewesin	sound through an
dshin	be a certain
dshing	a certain number
dshiwak	be a certain
dsigniwaagmi	be stained of
dso-	each every
dso-bboon	a certain number
dsobboon'gat	be a certain
dsobboon'gizi	be a certain
dso-dba'ganet	be a certain
dso-dbik	a certain number
dsogiisagzi	be a certain
dsognagat	be a certain
dsognagzi	be a certain
dsogon	a certain number
dsoode	be pinned down
dsoodoon	pin sth down
dsoonaa	pin sth an
dsoonaagan	animal trap
dsooza	be pinned down
dwaa'baan	water hole in
dwaa'ge	make hole in
dwaabde	have teeth missing
dwaashin	fall through the
dwin'ge	clear things off
dwishkmaage	make room for
dwishkmawaa	make room for
dwisin	be adequate room
dzhi-	at a certain
dzhigaabwi	stand in a
dzhigneshin	have ones remains
dzhiikaan	work at sth
dzhiike	frequent a certain
dzhiikwaa	work at sth
dzhikaa	take a certain
dzhimaa	discuss smb gossip
dzhinaashkawaa	chase smb from
dzhindaan	discuss sth talk
dzhinge	gossip talk about
dzhingeshki	be a habitual
dzhishin	lie buried in
dzhitaa	take a certain
dzhitaamgat	take a certain
dzhwegda'aan	roll sth out
dzhweggoodoon	hang sth spread
dzhweggoonaa	hang sth an
dzhwegnaa	spread sth an
dzhwegnaan	spread sth out
dzhwegnige	spread things out
dzhwegshimaa	spread sth an
dzhwegsidoon	spread sth out
dzhweyaadgaa	flow out all
e-baazgobjigemgakin	springtooth harrows
ebgoogmik	ant hill
ebgoonh	ant
ebgoons	ant
ebngishmak	west in the
edwidetek	on both sides
egaach	gently slowly
egaach	Take it easy
e-ggiibaadzit	clown
egwaawgoonh	foundling washed up
ehenh	yes
e-kandoot	fielder baseman shortstop
ekdiiyebi	have ones rear
ekgaade	have ones legs
ekizhep	morning
eknike	have ones arms
ekninjii	have ones hands
eknoomaagenh	teacher instructor
eknoomaaget	coach
ekshkiinzhgwe	have ones eyes
ektaan	be tired of
ektam	be tired of
ektawaa	be tired of
ekwaa-	finish
ekwaabmaa	be tired of
ekwaabndaan	be tired of
ekwaabndang	fielder baseman shortstop
ekwaakwaak	edge of the
ekwaanaama	breathe ones last
ekwaangzhe	be tired of
ekwaawgan	have ones back
ekwendaan	be tired of
ekwendam	be tired of
ekwenmaa	be tired of
ekwinjiishin	leave ones handprint
ekwishin	have an imprint
ekwisin	have an imprint
ekzi	be tired
ekzide	have ones feet
emkooyaanenh	a species of
emkwaan	spoon
emkwaanens	teaspoon
emkwaansaak	white ash a
empaaya	umpire
en'gok	with all ones
en'googmik	ant hill
en'goonh	ant
en'goons	ant
en'kamgaak	geography
en'kwebjiget	catcher  2
endgit	have a certain
endgo	isnt it so
endgwenh	I wonder whether
endso-	each every each
endzhi-miigaading	war
endzhi-mzinaatesjigeng	movie theatre
engaach	slowly
engaach	Slow down Take
enh	yes
Enma'aat	Christian
entek	house contents household
enwek	is it ever
epagdang	pitcher
epagjiget	pitcher
epiichi-	while
esbaanh	raccoon
esban	raccoon
esbikenh	spider
eshkam	increasingly more and
eshkan	chisel
eshkdamoonh	watermelon
eshkmegwenh	osprey a type
eshknaak	ice cutter
eshkot	at first initially
eshkwaach	for nothing CL
eshkweyiing	last in line
eshoonh	cabbage
esiinh	clam oyster
eskgamdenh	tonic
eta	just only
ewepdang	batter hitter
ewepjiget	batter hitter
ewshoogaabwi	stand at the
ewshooshimaa	put sth an
ewshoosidoon	put sth at
eyaabshkaabkak	silver
eyebik	daddy longlegs
eyedwikna	on both sides
eyedwiy'iing	on both sides
eyiidwaabdeyaanh	double axe
eyiidweyiing	on both sides
eyoonh	Oh
eyoot	weapon
ezaawaabgoniik	mustard weed
ezaawaanh	muskmelon cantaloupe
ezaawmin'gaanh	orange fruit
ezgaa	wood tick
e-zhaangsek	jello
ezhaazhaanh	dumpling
ezhi-gchi-nikaayin	at your right
ezhi-nmanjnikaayin	at your left
ga-	will shall 
gaa	no not
gaa	pickerel
gaa-bi-bmisek	last week
gaa-waabang	the next day
gaabgebak	princes pine evergreen
gaachaabewzi	be petite be
gaachaabiigat	be thin of
gaachaabiiggaade	have thin legs
gaachaabiiggwewe	have a thin
gaachaabiignike	have thin arms
gaachaabiigzi	be thin of
gaachaakot	be thin of
gaachaakwat	be thin of
gaachaakzi	be thin of
gaachbiigaade	be small of
gaachdebiiyaa	be narrow of
gaachdengwe	have a small
gaachdeyaa	be narrow
gaachdeyaagmaa	be straits
gaachdezi	be narrow
gaachiigat	be small of
gaachiigzi	be small of
gaachiinyi	be little be
gaachin	be little be
gaachjaane	have a small
gaachmin'gaa	be small of
gaachmin'gizi	be small of
gaachndibe	have a small
gaachninjii	have small hands
gaachnoonyi	be tiny
gaachshkizi	have a tiny
gaachdamii	hook up with
gaachzide	have small feet
gaadaajmotwaa	give smb an
gaadaan	plant sth
gaadi-	spotted
gaadi-gnebik	immature northern water
gaadoon	hide sth
gaagaagwansh	black spruce
gaagaakshiinh	common raven crow
gaagaashkjii'aan	scrape sth with
gaagaashkjiiwaa	scrape sth an
gaagge-	forever for all
gaagge-shkodeng	Hell
gaagiibaajenh	joker prankster
gaagiidaabde	have a toothache
gaagiidaawgan	have a backache
gaagiidaawgane	have a backache
gaagiidzi	ache be sore
gaagiidzide	have a sore
gaagiijbikon	have a backache
gaagiijdinmaangan	have sore shoulders
gaagiijdinmaangne	have sore shoulders
gaagiijgaade	have a sore
gaagiijganzhii	have a sore
gaagiijgondaagan	have a sore
gaagiijgwewe	have a sore
gaagiijiiwgizi	have sore muscles
gaagiijmasde	have a sore
gaagiijnagskwe	have a sore
gaagiijndibe	have a sore
gaagiijnike	have sore arms
gaagiijninjii	have sore hands
gaagiijzide	have a sore
gaagiimoodzi	be a sneak
gaagiin'koyaa	be pointed at
gaagiinaadngoshi	have nightmares
gaagiiwewak	go each to
gaagiizmaa	calm smb soothe
gaagnik	forever very often
gaak	porcupine
gaakaakde	be cooked to
gaakaandkwese	have ones head
gaakaanjbagza	jerk ones body
gaakaapshiinh	barn owl
gaakaashkjii'aan	scrape sth with
gaakaashkjiiwaa	scrape sth an
gaakaasknejiinh	catbird
gaakbidoon	tear sth
gaakbinaa	tear sth an
gaakdiiyaandaan	rip the seat
gaakdiiyeshkaa	be torn in
gaakshkaa	be ripped be
gaakshkaa	be ripped be
gaakshkaan	rip sth with
gaamaajwan	on the other
gaamdaaki	on the hill
gaaming	across a body
gaamkana	across the road
gaamyi'iing	across the way
gaand'aan	push sth with
gaand'igwaaswin	thimble
gaandkwenaa	push smbs head
gaandkwes'aa	shove smbs head
gaandkwewebnaa	push smbs head
gaandnaa	push sth an
gaandnaama	push with ones
gaandnaan	push sth
gaandnigan	puchcart wheelbarrow
gaandnigan	pushcart wheelbarrow
gaandsa'aa	shove smb
gaandsatoon	shove sth
gaandwaa	prod sth an
gaandzakmii	take off running
gaanj'aa	do something that
gaanjbidoon	push sth with
gaanjbiisaa	rain harder
gaanjbinaa	push sth an
gaanjgaadenaa	push smbs leg
gaanjgaadeshkwaa	push smbs leg
gaanjgidemaa	get smb riled
gaanjgwewese	have ones neck
gaanjiingweni	make a face
gaanjiingwetwaa	make faces at
gaanjmin'gage	play billiards play
gaanjweb'aan	push sth with
gaanjwebnaa	push smb
gaanjwebnaan	push sth
gaanjwebnige	push things with
gaanjwebshkaan	push sth with
gaanjwebshkawaa	push sth an
gaanjwebshkige	push things with
gaanjwebwaa	push sth an
gaanjzideyaashi	dash off
gaanzkaan	push against sth
gaanzkawaa	push against sth
gaapaakde	be cooked to
gaapaakza	be cooked to
gaapan	be brittle be
gaapjiishin	shatter from striking
gaapjiisin	shatter from striking
gaapjiiwaa	smash sth an
gaapjii'aan	smash sth with
gaapjiizaan	cook sth to
gaapjiizwaa	cook sth an
gaapshin	shatter from striking
gaapsin	shatter from striking
gaapzi	be brittle be
gaashiinyi	be little be
gaashk'aan	scrape the surface
gaashkaad'aan	scrape something off
gaashkaad'igan	scraper
gaashkaad'ige	scrape things off
gaashkaadwaa	scrape something off
gaashkbaadaan	shave sth
gaashkbaajgaans	razor shaver
gaashkbaajgan	road grader
gaashkbaajgan	razor shaver Wk
gaashkbaanaa	shave smb
gaashkbaaza	shave ones face
gaashkbidoon	scratch on sth
gaashkbijge	scratch on something
gaashkbinaa	scratch on sth
gaashkboodoon	carve sth out
gaashkboonaa	carve sth an
gaashkganaamaa	pound a dent
gaashkganaandaan	pound a dent
gaashkgwaadaan	rake sth rake
gaashkgwaajgan	scraper rake
gaashkgwaanaa	rake sth an
gaashkjiibdoon	gouge sth with
gaashkjiibnaa	gouge sth an
gaashkjiinaa	scoop sth an
gaashkjiinaan	scoop sth up
gaashknaa	scrape sth an
gaashknaan	scrape sth in
gaashkodaan	gouge sth in
gaashkonaa	gouge sth an
gaashkse	split apart
gaashkshimaa	dent sth an
gaashkshkaan	dent sth with
gaashkshkawaa	dent sth an
gaashkshkoodoon	get sth scratched
gaashkshkoonaa	get sth an
gaashksidoon	dent sth from
gaashkwaa	scrape the surface
gaashkzhaan	scrape sth in
gaashkzhwaa	scrape sth an
gaasiibiiwaa	erase sth an
gaasiibii'aan	erase sth
gaasiingwewo	wipe ones face
gaasiiyaakzawning	purgatory
gaaskaapi	laugh under ones
gaaskiignaan	rustle sth of
gaasknaabaagwe	be thirsty
gaasknaabaagweshkaage	make people thirsty
gaasknaabaagweshkaagemgat	make people thirsty
gaasknaabaagweshkaagon	be made thirsty
gaasknaza	whisper
gaaskwewe	make the sound
gaaskwewetoo	make a scratchy
gaaskzidebooza	shuffle ones feet
gaataagaabwitaan	stand in a
gaataayiing	around all around
gaawaadaan	crave sth long
gaawaakmish	common pricklyash
gaawaanaa	crave sth an
gaawaandak	white spruce branch
gaawaandga-bgiw	spruce gum
gaawaandgwaatik	white spruce
gaawaanh	barely hardly scarcely
gaaway	quill of a
gaawe	be jealous due
gaawendmowin	jealousy
gaawenjgeshki	be a jealous
gaaweshki	be a jealous
gaawiin	no
gaawmaa	be jealous of
gaawn-gegoon	nothing
gaawnzigoonh	redbreasted merganser
gaawnzigoons	hooded merganser
gaawnzik	merganser
gaawtaagmik	all around the
gaawye	quill of a
gaawyekaajgan	quillbox
gaawyike	do quillwork
gaay	not
gaazhak	cat
gaazhgens	cat kitten
gaazo	hide
gaazootwaa	hide from smb
gadendaan	be ashamed of
gadendam	be ashamed
gadenmaa	be ashamed of
gaj'aa	embarrass smb
gaji	be embarrassed
gaji-yaa	act shy
gajiikaaza	pretend to be
gajiiwaadzi	be naturally shy
gajshki	be shy
gamii	lake
gamiing	by the lake
gamiing	lakeshore
gapgamzaan	thicken sth in
gapgamzwaa	thicken sth an
gashki	raw uncooked
gashkmansii	belted kingfisher
gawaa	icefish
gawaak	walleye sauger a
gawaan'gamik	icefishing hut
gawaate	be shady
gawaatebiishin	reflect on the
gawaatebiisin	reflect on the
gawaateshin	be in the
gawaatesin	be in the
gawaatewin	umbrella
gazmaa	embarrass smb by
gba'aan	cover sth put
gba'gan	cover lid
gbaa	disembark get out
gbaabiignaan	close sth off
gbaabiignige	close the drapes
gbaabka'aan	close the damper
gbaabka'gan	damper
gbaabka'ge	close the damper
gbaabwe	be plugged get
gbaaknaa	close sth an
gbaaknaan	close sth
gbaakogan	dam obstruction
gbaakoon'gishin	bar the way
gbaakoon'gishmaa	park sth an
gbaaksatoon	slam sth shut
gbaakse	slam closed slam
gbaakse	slam closed slam
gbaakshimaa	lay sth an
gbaakshin	lie barring the
gbaakshkaa	close without apparent
gbaakshkaa	close without apparent
gbaakshkawaa	bar smbs way
gbaaksidoon	lay sth down
gbaaksin	lie barring the
gbaakw'aan	close sth shut
gbaakw'igaaza	be locked up
gbaakw'igan	dam comm 
gbaakw'ige	close up something
gbaakwaa	lock smb up
gbaakwigaade	see gbaakwigaade
gbaakwigaaza	see gbaakwigaaza
gbaakwige	see gbaakwige
gbadin	freeze over bodies
gban'ka'ge	stop up a
gbaskzigan	coagulant
gbawaa	cover sth an
gbawaanzhe'aan	damp sth of
gbawaanzhe'gan	damper on a
gbawaanzhewaa	block sth an
gbe-	all whole length
gbe-bboon	all winter
gbe-dbik	all night
gbe-giizhik	all day
gbe-naagosh	all evening
gbe-niibin	all summer
gbe-shkwaa-naawkwe	all afternoon
gbe-yaa	stay for the
gbe-zhebaa	all the past
gbebza	drive for the
gbeshi	sleep overnight spend
gbeshiiwgamik	hotel inn lodge
gbey'ii	for a long
gbey'iing	for a long
gbidoonenaa	cover smbs mouth
gbigaabwi	stand in the
gbiingwenaa	cover smbs eyes
gbiingwepnaa	blindfold smb
gbiingwepza	be blindfolded
gbiingwewegin	face towel
gbijaane	have a stuffy
gbijaanenaa	cover smbs nose
gbijaanendiza	cover ones nose
gbikaadaan	overtake sth pass
gbikaanaa	overtake smb pass
gbikaazhwe	overtake people pass
gbikdaan	overtake sth pass
gbiknaa	overtake smb pass
gbikzhiwe	overtake people pass
gbinewebnaa	choke smb strangle
gbinewenaa	choke smb strangle
gbinewes'aa	strangle smb
gbineweshkwaa	choke smb with
gbisgazhe	be constipated
gbisgishkaak	be constipated by
gbishkaa	be constricted be
gbishkaa	be constricted be
gbishkwaa	be in smbs
gbiskwe	be hoarse get
gbitoogenaa	cover smbs ears
gbitoogendiza	cover ones ears
gbode	be stifling
gbodenh	blood sausage
gbojiide	be roasted roast
gbojiishkwe	be blocked up
gbojiiza	be roasted roast
gbojiizaan	bake sth roast
gbojiizwaa	bake sth an
gbokbaa	be closed in
gbonaabaagwe	drown
gbonaama	suffocate
gbonesin	permeate a room
gbonnaa	fight smb in
gbonooza	be overwhelmed by
gboobjigan	bag with a
gboobjige	top up something
gboojgan	curtain
gbookat	be damp of
gbooki-giizhgat	be a damp
gbooki-zhiwebat	be damp of
gbookiigat	be damp of
gbookiigzi	be damp of
gbookkamgaa	be damp of
gbookshin	be damp go
gbooksin	be damp go
gbookzi	be damp
gboosnenh	trousers
gboyaa	feel cooped up
gbwaakweyaa	be closed in
gbwaapsa	be smoked in
gbwaabte	be filled with
gchi'aa	celebrity important person
gchi'ii	important thing significant
gchi-	big great major
gchi-	much lots extremely
gchi-aawdaas-daabaan	truck transport in
Gchi-bboon-giizis	BigWinter Moon December
gchi-dende	bullfrog
gchi-gaaming	overseas
gchi-gaanwapii	my the hour
gchi-gaawnzik	common merganser
gchi-gegoo	something big something
gchi-ggizhep	early in the
gchi-gmi	sea ocean
Gchi-gmiing	Lake Superior
Gchi-gwaamwining	Tobermory Ont
gchi-mekdekonye	pope
gchi-miigaadim	be at war
gchi-miin	highbush blueberry
Gchi-mookmaan	American esp an
Gchi-mookmaan'kiing	United States of
Gchi-mookmaanmo	speak English
gchi-mshiikenh	tortoise
gchi-nam'e-giizhgat	be Easter Sunday
gchi-nese	breathe hard pant
gchi-ngoji	way out of
gchi-niibiish	cabbage
gchi-nshinaabe	elder
gchi-piitendaagot	be of great
gchi-piitendaagzi	be of great
gchi-piitendaan	prize sth
gchi-piitenmaa	regard smb highly
Gchi-siniing	Chesaning Mich
gchi-ginii	tomato
Gchi-wiikwedong	Owen Sound Ont
gchi-yaakaaza	act like somebody
gchi-zhaazhi	long ago a
gchi-zhi-yaa	be conceited be
gchi-zhi-yaakaaza	act like one
gchigmiikaanwansh	juniper
gchiitam	end up staying
gchi-nendaan	cherish sth value
gchinendam	be glad be
gchi-nendiza	be conceited be
gchi-nendmoshki	be stuckup
gchi-nenmaa	cherish smb be
gchingim	after a short
gchitwaa-	holy revered venerable
gchitwaa-	special classy gourmet
gchitwaa-giizhgat	be a holy
gchitwaa-kwe	classy woman lady
gchitwaawendaagot	be blessed be
gchitwaawendaagzi	be blessed be
gchitwaawoonaa	give smb a
gchitwaawzi	be rich be
gchi-zhinaagot	look unusual look
gchi-zhinaagzi	look unusual look
gdaabka'gan	key
gdaagmandaan	try sth to
gdaakiiye	go up the
gdaakiiyebtoo	run up the
gdaakiiyebza	drive up the
gdaakiiyedaabaan'go	ride up the
gdaakiiyegaadewse	walk up the
gdaakiiyeyaabiichge	drive a team
gdaaknige	try the door
gdaan	eat sth all
gdaanjge	eat all of
gdaazhgaa	pour out
gdag'aa	abuse smb be
gdagaakoons	fawn deer
gdagaakzi	be spotted have
gdagaasgiingwe	be frecklefaced have
gdagendam	feel sorrowful feel
gdagi-	freckled mottled spotted
gdagiigaanh	rag
gdagiigin	cloth piece of
gdagjiibnaa	tickle smb viciously
gdagjiishkaan	trap and crush
gdagjiishkwaa	trap and crush
gdagmaa	abuse smb verbally
gdagmin'gaa	be freckled have
gdagmin'gizi	be freckled have
gdagnakii	slave work like
gdagtoo	suffer physically have
gdagtooyendam	suffer mental anguish
gdagzi	be mottled be
gdagzi	have a hard
gdagzideshin	stub ones toe
gdajmaa	test smb in
gdamaa	try sth an
gdamwaa	eat sth an
gdandaan	try sth to
gdanemaa	expel sth an
gdanendaan	expel sth from
gdansen	have something fall
gdawaakwaadaan	shoot at sth
gdawaakwaanaa	shoot at smb
gdibnigaazo	have a nightmare
gdibnigo	have a nightmare
gdigjii'aan	tip sth over
gdigjiibdoon	tip sth over
gdigjiibnaa	tip sth an
gdigjiinaa	tip sth an
gdigjiinaan	tip sth over
gdigjiishkaan	tip sth over
gdigjiishkwaa	tip sth an
gdigjiiwaa	tip sth an
gdigjiiweb'aan	tip sth over
gdigjiiwebnaa	tip sth an
gdigjiiwebnaan	tip sth over
gdigjiiwebshkaan	tip sth over
gdigjiiwebshkawaa	tip sth an
gdigjiiweb'aa	tip sth an
gdigmin'gibdoon	roll sth with
gdigmin'gibnaa	roll sth an
gdigmin'gise	roll of small
gdigmin'gise	roll of small
gdigse	roll over accidentally
gdigse	tip over roll
gdigshkaa	tip roll of
gdigshkaa	tip roll of
gdigshkaan	tip sth over
gdigshkawaa	tip sth an
gdigwaashi	be blown over
gdigwaasin	be blown over
gdigwebnaa	tip sth an
gdigwebnaan	tip sth over
gdikweshin	hang ones head
gdimaagat	be poor of
gdimaagendam	feel hopeless
gdimaagge	live in a
gdimaagjiin'ge	have a poor
gdimaagnaagzi	look pitiful
gdimaagpiza	dress in rags
gdimaagtaagzi	sound pitiful
gdimaagzi	be poor be
gdimaagziikaaza	pretend to be
gdinaa	try lifting sth
gdinaan	try lifting sth
gdisk'iwe	get loose
gdiskaabiignaa	unplug sth an
gdiskaabiignaan	unplug sth
gdiskbidoon	pull sth off
gdiskbinaa	pull sth an
gdiskii	escape from anothers
gdisknakse	detach separate of
gdiskndinmaagneshin	get a separated
gdiskninjiibnaa	pull something from
gdiskse	get detached come
gdiskse	get detached come
gdoode	crawl out from
gdoombiigis	Shut up
gdotaagan	bell
gdotaagnigmik	belfry
ge	and also as
ge-ni-bmisek	next week
gebgaadenh	hamper  2
gebkadiinh	comforter bedding
Gechtwaawendaagok	Host the bread
gechtwaawziin-kwe	millionairess rich woman
gechtwaawziinh	millionaire rich man
gechwaa	like just like
gechwibde	attain smooth running
gechwibza	attain smooth running
gegaa	almost
geget	really for sure
geget	of course thats
gegeti	really for sure
gegeti	Of course Its
gegii	you you sg
gegiin	we including you
gegiinwi	we including you
gegiinwin	we including you
gego	also as well
gegoo	any anything something
gegooko iidig 	big deal as
gegoon	any anything something
gegpii	finally  2
gekaanh	old person elderly
gekekoons	pigeon hawk
gekendaasoonh	smart person
Genada	Canada
genii	I I too
geniin	us exc us
geniinwi	us exc us
geniinwin	us exc us
gepgaanh	heavy quilt thick
geshkgwaaswaanh	sewing machine
geshtine	now while theres
geshwaakshin	be loose of
geshwaaksin	be loose of
geshwishin	be loose of
geshwisin	be loose of
geskana	suddenly all of
geskwaabaawe	get caught in
gesnaa	ever how what
gesnaa	ever if ever
gete'aa	old thing
gete-'aawi	be an old
gete'ii	old thing
gete-'iiwan	be an old
gete-	old
geteyaajma	tell old stories
getnaamgaadese	walk determinedly
getnaamiikaan	work really hard
getnaamiikwaa	work really hard
getnaamiingweni	have a serious
getnaamtawaa	take smb seriously
getnaamzi	make a determined
gewe	and also as
gewii	he her him
gewii	it it too
gewiin	he her him
geyaabi	anymore more still
gezbaabiignaa	roll sth an
gezbaabiignaan	roll sth up
gezbaaknaan	fold sth up
gezbaangdaasa	put away things
gezbaangde	be neat be
gezbamaa	eat sth an
gezbandaan	eat sth up
gezbi'aa	put sth an
gezbiignaa	fold sth an
gezbiignaan	fold sth up
gezbijiin'ge	gather up things
gezbin'ge	tidy things up
gezbinaa	gather sth an
gezbinaagne	tidy up the
gezbinaagot	look neat look
gezbinaagzi	look neat look
gezbinaan	gather sth up
gezbipde	be tied up
gezbipza	be tied up
gezbisdoon	put sth away
gezbishin	lie neatly lie
gezbishmaa	put sth an
gezbisin	lie neatly lie
gezbisjige	tidy up put
gezbitoon	put sth in
gezbiwebnaa	throw sth an
gezbiwebnaan	throw sth in
gezbiwebnige	throw things in
geshkbizoonh	steamed pudding wrapped
gezkaage	catch people in
gezkawaa	catch smb in
gezkognaamaa	hit smb before
gezkognaandaan	catch sth with
gezkotaan	catch sth being
gezkotwaa	catch smb saying
ggaakwii	renege revoke
ggaan'gaade	be longlegged have
ggaandenmaa	resent smb
ggaandsa'aa	shove smb
ggaandsamookii	sic a dog
ggaandsamoonaa	sic smb on
ggaandsatoon	shove sth
ggaandwen	order something up
ggaanj'aa	provoke smb 
ggaanjiingwetwaa	make faces at
ggaannagweyaa	be longsleeved have
ggaanwaakgaade	be longlegged have
ggaanwiziikaaza	make it look
ggaanzmaa	encourage smb urge
ggaanztam	disobey rebel
ggaanztawaa	disobey smb
ggabin	sit with something
gganoonaa	converse with smb
ggashki-	raw uncooked
ggetin	hard with great
ggiibaadaan'gidoon	talk nonsense
ggidaasengwaam	sleep with ones
ggiibaach	clown fool joker
ggiibaadaaknige	make foolish plans
ggiibaadaatkamik	its absurd its
ggiibaadendam	think something is
ggiibaadenmaa	think smb is
ggiibaadzi	be bad be
ggiibaaj-giizhwe	speak in double
ggiibaaji-	badly foolishly
ggiibaaji-kwedwe	ask a stupid
ggiibaaji-kwejmaa	ask smb a
ggiibaaji-n'kwetwaa	give smb a
ggiibaajiikwaa	molest smb
ggiibaandwe	fall off while
ggiibaazaabndam	have a silly
ggiibaazmaa	con smb out
ggiibaaznaagot	look foolish look
ggiibaaznaagzi	look foolish look
ggiibaaztaagot	sound nonsensical sound
ggiibaaztaagzi	talk nonsense talk
ggiibaaztawaa	think smbs remarks
ggiibdabi	sit in the
ggiibgaabwi	stand in the
ggiibgwewes'aa	strangle smb violently
ggiibiingwe	be blind
ggiibnagkwe	stutter
ggiibnewebnaa	strangle smb
ggiibshe	be deaf be
ggiibshemaa	deafen smb by
ggiibshkawaa	be in smbs
ggiikmaa	preach to smb
ggiikwaa	lecture to smb
ggiikwe	preach  2
ggiikwen	preach something
ggiinwi	lie tell a
ggiinwishkaadzi	be a liar
ggiinwishkaajma	tell a lie
ggiinwishki	lie tell a
ggiinwishkmaa	tell smb a
ggiknawengwaam	sleep with ones
ggikzinengwaam	sleep with ones
ggin'igezwaa	cook sth an
gginwaa	beat smb with
ggishkaajge	conceive a child
ggishkwaa	carry smb in
ggizhebaa-wiisni	eat breakfast have
ggizhebaawgat	be morning
ggizhebaawii	get up early
ggizhep	morning in the
ggwaansagaadkamik	how terrible thats
ggwaan'sagendam	be greatly distressed
ggwaansaggidaaza	be fuming mad
ggwaansagi-yaa	act disgusted
ggwaansagkamik	how terrible thats
ggwaansagzi	be disgusting CL
ggwe-	try to do
ggwe-debwe	insist that one
ggwedaagnidwak	arm wrestle each
ggwedganaamaa	box with smb
ggwedganaandwak	box with each
ggwedganaanjge	box fight in
ggwedgawaa	test sth an
ggwedwe	ask ask for
ggweji-	try to do
ggweji-bkinaadwak	compete with each
ggweji-ndamaa	take a taste
ggweji-ndandaan	take a taste
ggwejii	practice doing something
ggwejiiwii	wrestle
ggwejiiyaanaa	wrestle with smb
ggwejiiyaandiwak	box with each
ggwejiiyaanjge	wrestle
ggwejiiyaaza	wrestle
ggwejjiinaa	feel sth an
ggwejjiinaan	feel sth with
ggwejkanaadiwin	contest
ggwejkandiikmigat	be a race
ggwejkandiwak	race with each
ggwejkazhwe	race engage in
ggwejmaa	ask smb make
ggwejtoon	try to do
ggwengazhwe	race usually of
ggwepnandiza	try to ones
ggwetaan'gamde	boil exceedingly hard
ggwetaan'gamik	an exceedingly beautiful
ggwetaan'gamza	boil exceedingly hard
ggwetaan'gidaaza	be furious
ggwetaan'gimaa	charge an exceptional
ggwetaan'gindaan	charge an exceptional
ggwetaan'ginde	cost an awful
ggwetaan'giza	cost an awful
ggwetaan'kaak	be knocked off
ggwetaan'kamik	exceedingly extremely awfully
ggwetaanaabkizaawe	be extremely drunk
ggwetaanaadgaa	swim exceedingly fast
ggwetaanaagmi	taste exceedingly good
ggwetaanaagnagaa	be exceedingly snowy
ggwetaanaaskone	be ablaze with
ggwetaanaaskone	be ablaze with
ggwetaanaaskonwe	have ones house
ggwetaanaate	be exceedingly hot
ggwetaanat	be marvelous be
ggwetaanbagza	jump really high
ggwetaanbatoo	run exceedingly fast
ggwetaanbide	fly exceedingly fast
ggwetaanbiza	drive exceedingly fast
ggwetaandaabaan'go	ride along exceedingly
ggwetaandaawe	sell an awful
ggwetaandaawen	sell an awful
ggwetaandama	be a really
ggwetaan'gaadese	walk exceedingly fast
ggwetaani-	exceedingly extremely awfully
ggwetaaniinat	be exceedingly numerous
ggwetaaniini	be exceedingly numerous
ggwetaannaage	win resoundingly have
ggwetaannaagot	look striking
ggwetaannaagwat	look striking
ggwetaannaagzi	look striking
ggwetaannakza	be really stoned
ggwetaannawaa	beat smb resoundingly
ggwetaannigot	be exceedingly heavy
ggwetaannigwat	be exceedingly heavy
ggwetaannigzi	be exceedingly heavy
ggwetaanpogot	taste exceedingly good
ggwetaanpogzi	taste exceedingly good
ggwetaanwebshkige	pedal furiously
ggwetaanwewedaabii	snore exceedingly loudly
ggwetaanwewejiishin	land with an
ggwetaanwewejiisin	land with a
ggwetaanyi'aa	a strikingly beautiful
ggwetaanyi'ii	a strikingly beautiful
ggwetaanyi'iing	an exceedingly beautiful
ggwetaanzi	be exceedingly strict
ggwetaazhiinat	exist in tremendous
ggwetaazhiini	exist in tremendous
ggwezkaan	try on sth
ggwezkawaa	try on sth
gidaa	up on
gidaagon	on the snow
gidaagoon	on the snow
gidaajwan	upstream
gidaaki	up the hill
gidaatik	on the log
gidbak	on the roof
gidbiik	on top of
gidgamik	on top of
gidkamik	on the earth
gidsak	on the floor
gigkaa	catch a cold
gii	you sg
gii'aa	escape from smb
gii-	past tense
giib'aan	bump sth off
giibbide	veer down off
giibbiza	veer down off
giibdaabaadaan	drag sth down
giibdaabaanaa	drag sth an
giibjiingwaam	fall out of
giibjiise	fall out of
giibjiiyebnaa	throw smb off
giibjiiyebshkawaa	push smb off
giibse	fall down from
giibse	fall down from
giibshkaan	bump sth off
giibshkawaa	bump sth an
giibwaa	bump sth an
giibweb'aan	bump sth off
giibwebshkaan	bump sth off
giibwebshkawaa	bump sth an
giibwebwaa	bump sth an
giichdaase	take ones socks
giichgobdawaa	pull clothing off
giichgobdoon	pull sth off
giichgobnaa	pull sth an
giichii	take ones boots
giichwebnaa	throw sth an
giichwebnaan	throw sth off
giichwebnige	throw ones clothes
giig'on	check
giigaang	young woman
giigda	speak talk
giigdadema	blubber talk as
giigdangwaam	talk in ones
giigdongwaamo	talk in ones
giigdoogamik	meeting hall band
giigdowin	conversation
giigetaa	give people something
giigeyaa	give smb something
giigezi	savour something find
giigkisdoon	move sth to
giigkishmaa	move sth an
giigo-yekzi	be dog tired
giigoonh	fish
giigoonke	fish
giigoonmaagot	smell fishy smell
giigoonmaagzi	smell fishy smell
giigoonwi	be a fish
giijganzhii	have a sore
giijiingwe	have a sore
giijndibe	have a sore
giijndibeshin	hurt ones head
giijnike	have a sore
giijnikeshin	hurt ones arm
giijninjii	have a sore
giijninjiishin	hurt ones hand
giik'aan	nudge sth with
giikaakbidoon	pull sth free
giikaakbinaa	pull sth an
giikaamaa	quarrel with smb
giikaandiikmigat	there be a
giikaandwak	quarrel with each
giikaandwe	start quarrelling start
giikaandwemaa	start quarrelling with
giikaawdam	quarrel with somebody
giikaawdamshki	be quarrelsome
giikbidoon	pull sth ahead
giikbinaa	move sth an
giikdaabaadaan	move sth over
giikdaabaanaa	move sth an
giikdabi	move over in
giikgaabwi	move over in
giikgimaa	raise the price
giikgindaan	raise the prices
giikgindaasa	raise prices
giikginde	go up in
giikgiza	go up in
giikiibngoshi	be sleepy
giikiibngoshnaagzi	look sleepy
giikiibngoshwaadzi	be constantly sleepy
giikiibngwashi	be sleepy
giikiidaabde	have a sore
giikiidzi	be sore
giikiijbikon	have a sore
giikiijbwaame	have a sore
giikiijdenniwe	have a sore
giikiijdiiye	have a sore
giikiijdinmaangan	have a sore
giikiijdoondan	have a sore
giikiijdooskon	have a sore
giikiijgaade	have a sore
giikiijganzhii	have a sore
giikiijgondaagan	have a sore
giikiijgwiiwe	have a sore
giikiiji-yaa	be sore of
giikiijiingwe	have a sore
giikiijmasde	have a sore
giikiijnagskwe	have a sore
giikiijndibe	have a sore
giikiijndibeshin	hurt ones head
giikiijnike	have a sore
giikiijnikeshin	hurt ones arm
giikiijninjii	have a sore
giikiijninjiishin	hurt ones hand
giikiijzide	have a sore
giikiimngoshi	be sleepy
giikiimngoshnaagzi	look sleepy
giikiishkamgishkoojgan	disk
giikman'gaade	feel tingling in
giikman'gaadebi	have ones leg
giikmandiiyebi	have ones rear
giikmannike	feel tingling in
giikmanzi	be numb
giikmanzide	feel tingling in
giiknaamzaan	smoke sth smudge
giiknaamzwaa	smoke sth an
giikshimaa	move sth an
giikshin	move over while
giiksidoon	move sth over
giikwaa	nudge sth an
giikweb'aan	push sth with
giikwebnaa	shove sth an
giikwebnaan	shove sth aside
giikwebshkaan	push sth with
giikwebshkawaa	push sth an
giikwebwaa	push sth an
giimaan'gidoon	grumble
giimii	leave without permission
giimooch	covertly secretly stealthily
giimood'amii	tiptoe around walk
giimoodaagmandaan	drink sth esp
giimoodaajma	relate things covertly
giimoodaajmaa	relate things about
giimoodaajndaan	relate sth covertly
giimoodaan'gidoon	speak covertly talk
giimoodaapnanaa	pick on smb
giimoodganaamaa	hit smb covertly
giimoodnanaa	fight smb in
giimoodnjige	eat on the
giimoodzi	sneak sneak around
giimooj'aa	sneak away on
giimooji-	secret
giimooji-	covertly secretly sneakily
giimoojiikwaa	sneak up on
giimoozaabmaa	peek at smb
giimoozaabndaan	peek at sth
giimoozkawaa	sneak up on
giimshe	eavesdrop
giin	you sg
giin'kog'aan	chop sth to
giin'kogwaa	chop sth an
giin'kozhaan	cut sth to
giin'kozhwaa	cut sth an
giinaa	be sharp of
giinaa'aa	hone sth an
giinaadzi	be rough on
giinaakga'aan	sharpen sth with
giinaakgawaa	sharpen sth an
giinaaktoon	hone sth sharpen
giinaakw'aa	hone sth an
giinaatoon	hone sth sharpen
giinboode	be ground to
giinboodoon	sharpen sth sharpen
giinboonaa	sharpen sth an
giinbooza	be ground to
giinpoonzhe	bear a child
giinsendam	be relieved of
giinwaa	you pl 
giinwi	we including you
giinwi	lie tell a
giinwin	we including you
giinwishkaadzi	be a liar
giinwishkaajma	tell lies tell
giinwishkaajmatwaa	tell smb lies
ggiinwishki	lie tell a
giinwishkmaa	tell smb a
giinzi	be sharp
giipaa	be rough of
giipiingwe	have a rough
giipninjii	have rough hands
giipzi	be rough of
giisaach	too bad unfortunate
giisaadendaan	regret sth having
giisaadendam	be sorry feel
giisaadenmaa	regret sth an
giishk'aan	cut sth down
giishk'amwaa	cut something off
giishkaak'aan	cut sth off
giishkaakbidoon	break sth cleanly
giishkaakbinaa	break sth an
giishkaakjidoon	tear sth cleanly
giishkaakjimaa	tear sth an
giishkaakwaa	cut sth an
giishk'aakwe	clear the forest
giishkaakzaan	cut sth with
giishkaakzwaa	cut sth an
giishkaan'kweknaa	cut smbs long
giishkaan'kwekza	have ones hair
giishkaanwe	have a cut
giishkaabkaa	be a cliff
giishkamgishkoojgan	disk harrows
giishkbidoon	tear sth with
giishkbinaa	tear sth an
giishkboodmawaa	saw something for
giishkboodoon	saw sth
giishkboojgan	saw crosscut saw
giishkboojge	saw crosscut
giishkboonaa	saw sth an
giishkdiyekjigan	end of a
giishkga'aan	chop sth off
giishkgaadeboonaa	amputate smbs leg
giishkgaadebooza	have ones leg
giishkgaadeshin	cut ones leg
giishkganaamaa	sever sth an
giishkganaandaan	sever sth by
giishkgatgwegnaamaa	cut smb on
giishkgatgweshin	cut ones forehead
giishkgatgwewaa	cut smb on
giishkgawaa	chop sth an
giishkganzhiiknaa	cut smbs nails
giishkgidgweshin	cut ones knee
giishkgwe'aan	chop the top
giishkgwekdaan	cut the top
giishkgweknaa	cut smbs head
giishkgwenaa	break the top
giishkgwenaan	break the top
giishkgwewaa	chop the top
giishkiindgwaanh	drop off suddenly
giishkjiibdoon	break sth around
giishkjiibnaa	break sth an
giishkjiipza	have ones waist
giishkjiwyaan	vest
giishkkaa	tear be torn
giishkmaa	bite off a
giishknakat	be cut off
giishknakdoonh	tree stump
giishknamwaa	cut smb off
giishkndaan	bite off a
giishkndibegnaamaa	cut smb on
giishkndibeshin	cut ones head
giishkndibewaa	cut smb on
giishknemaa	sever sth an
giishknendaan	sever sth in
giishknike	have ones arm
giishknikegnaamaa	cut smbs arm
giishknikeshin	cut ones arm
giishknikewaa	cut ones arm
giishkninjiignaamaa	cut smbs hand
giishkninjiishin	cut ones hand
giishkninjiiwaa	cut smbs hand
giishkkodaan	cut sth using
giishkkojge	cut things using
giishkkonaa	cut sth an
giishkshimaa	cut st an
giishkshin	get cut from
giishksidoon	cut sth by
giishkwaa	cut sth an
giishkzhaan	cut sth sever
giishkzhamwaa	cut something for
giishkzhwaa	castrate smb of
giishkzidegnaamaa	cut smbs foot
giishkzideshin	cut ones foot
giishkzidewaa	cut smbs foot
giishnawsidoon	rattle sth
giishpin	if  2
giishpine	if
giishpnadaasa	buy things shop
giishpnadmawaa	buy something for
giishpnadoon	buy sth
giishpnadwaa	buy something for
giishpnajge	buy things shop
giishpnanaa	buy sth an
giiskaan	take sth off
giiskawaa	take sth an
giiskizne	take ones shoes
giiskonye	take ones clothes
giiskon'ye'aa	take smbs clothes
giiskon'yebnaa	pull smbs clothes
giisoo-mzin'igan	calendar
giitaabiignaa	outrun sth an
giitaadbiwak	sit in a
giitaagoode	hang in a
giitaagoojin	hang in a
giitaangzhe	finish ones job
giitaawaabiignaan	wind sth around
giitaawaanidwak	march around something
giiwaadshe	hear things incorrectly
giiwaadzi	be homeless have
giiwaajbide	be inaccurate be
giiwaajbidoon	make sth go
giiwaajbinaa	make sth an
giiwaajbiza	be off schedule
giiwaaji-pii	at a bad
giiwaajmanj'o	feel not quite
giiwaajngoshi	have a restless
giiwaazkaa	be inaccurate run
Giiwdenaaning	St Ignace Mich
giiwe	go home
giiwe'aa	make smb go
giiweboowe	escape to ones
giiwebtoo	run home
giiwebza	drive home fly
giiwedin	north wind
giiwednong	from the north
giiwegaadese	walk home
giiwenaashkawaa	chase smb home
giiwenaazhkawaa	chase smb home
giiwenh	so the story
giiwenj-dbokbeshi	feel at home
giiwewdoon	take sth home
giiwewnaa	take smb home
giiwewoodegzi	move back home
giiwnaadaan'gidoon	talk incoherently
giiwnaadendam	go crazy from
giiwnaadnaabaagwe	go crazy from
giiwnaadnaandam	go crazy from
giiwnaadnawaa	drive smb crazy
giiwnaadnepwaa	really crave a
giiwnaadwewemaa	drive smb crazy
giiwnaadzi	be crazy be
giiwnaajbii	go berserk from
giiwnaaji-zegzi	be scared senseless
giiwnaajndibe	be crazy be
giiwnaajngoshi	have a nightmare
giiwne	writhe in extreme
giiwniijaagan	bastard illegitimate child
giiwnimaa	lie to smb
giiwnizi	fool around play
giiwsaadendaan	regret sth having
giiwsaadendam	be sorry feel
giiwsaadenmaa	regret sth an
giiwsaaji-yaa	be a great
giiwsaanaa	hunt sth an
giiwsaatkamik	how unfortunate too
giiwse	hunt
giiwshkwe	be dizzy
giiwshkwebii	be drunk
giiwshkwebnaa	get smb drunk
giiwshkwejiiza	be dizzy from
giiwshkwen'kiza	be high from
giiwshkwendbeyaasa	be dizzy from
giiwshkweshkaag	be made dizzy
giiwshkwewaadzi	be dizzy
giiwshkweyaasa	be dizzy from
giiwshkweyaashi	be dizzy from
giiwtaabza	drive around something
giiwtaagmik	around the outside
giiwtaajiishin	curl up lying
giiwtaawaabiishin	lie encircling something
giiwtaawaabiisin	lie encircling something
giiwtaawse	walk around something
giiwtaayiing	around all around
giiwzi	be an orphan
giizh'aa	finish making sth
giizhde	be done being
giizhgaabwi'aa	finish placing smb
giizhgaate	be bright moonlight
giizhgat	day
giizhgat	be day be
giizhge	finish building a
giizhgiken	tinder
giizhgimaa	finish counting sth
giizhgindaan	finish counting sth
giizhgoong	heaven in heaven
giizhgwaande	be sky blue
giizhgwaanza	be sky blue
giizhi-	finish doing something
giizhiingwe	be ripe of
giizhiitaa	be finished doing
giizhiitaa'aa	give smb last
giizhiitaamgat	be finished doing
giizhiitaawshin	be prepared lie
giizhiitaawsin	be prepared lie
giizhik	by day
giizhik	northern white cedar
giizhkaandag	cedar branch
giizhkaandgagmik	cedar lodge
giizhkenh	northern white cedar
giizhkiki	cedar bushlot
giizhoogaadeshkwaa	warm smbs legs
giizhoogzhe	cover up well
giizhoojiinaa	warm smb up
giizhoojiishkwaa	warm smb up
giizhookmigaa	be warm of
giizhoonaamde	be warm and
giizhoonwii	warm oneself up
giizhooshin	be warm lying
giizhooshkaan	warm sth up
giizhooshkwaa	warm smb up
giizhoowaa	be warm get
giizhoowaagmi	be warm of
giizhoowaanmat	be warm of
giizhoozi	be warm get
giizhtaa	be finished doing
giizhtaa'aa	finish sth an
giizhtaatoon	finish sth get
giizhtoon	finish making sth
giizhwaakjiishin	lie curled up
giizhza	be done cooking
giizhzaan	finish cooking sth
giizhzekwe	finish cooking
giizhzwaa	finish cooking sth
giizis	sun  2
giji-	on on top
gijiyiing	on top of
gijiyiinh	on top of
gimaa	chief king president
gimaa	count smb 
Gimaa-giizhgat	be Epiphany
gimaakndawaa	boss smb around
gimaakwe	woman chief queen
Gimaakwe-giizhgat	be Victoria Day
gimaawaadzi	born to be
gimaawi	be chief become
gimniijaagan	bastard illegitimate child
gindaabkwe	count money
gindaan	count sth 
gindaas'aa	make smb count
gindaasa	count  2
gindaaswin	number numeral
gindmaagen	count something for
gindmawaa	count something for
ginii	rose flower
giniiwaande	be pink be
giniiwaanza	be pink be
ginjgewin	reading
giw	they an those
giwedi	those an over
giwi	they an those
giwik	they an those
gji'aa	test sth an
gji-	try to do
gjib'aa	escape from smb
gjib'iwe	escape run away
gjib'iwe'aa	escape with smb
gjibdetoon	give sth a
gjibtwaadaan	run off with
gjibtwaanaa	run off with
gjibzowaa	give sth an
gjibzowin	belt
gjichge	try things
gjidaabaadaan	drag sth out
gjidaabaanaa	drag sth an
gjigaadenaa	feel up smbs
gjignenaa	debone sth an
gjigwaashkni	jump off a
gjijiinaa	check the condition
gjijiinaan	check the condition
gjijiiwaa	prick sth an
gjijiiyaan	prick sth to
gjikdaan	cut sth out
gjiknaa	cut sth an
gjimaamaa	check the condition
gjimaandaan	check the condition
gjimaanjge	sniff something check
gjipdaan	check the taste
gjipge'aa	steal smbs boyfriend
gjipwaa	check the taste
gjitoon	test sth try
gka'ge	chop a hole
gkaa	be old be
gkaawnaagzi	look aged looked
gkaawngwe	be dustcovered
gkaawngwe	be dustcovered
gkendaagot	be evident be
gkendaagzi	be evident be
gkendaan	know about sth
gkendaasa	be intelligent be
gkendmaawzi	have knowhow
gkendmawaa	know something about
gkendmoo'aa	let smb know
gkendmoo'we	let people know
gkendmoonaa	notify smb let
gkenjge	be aware of
gkenjgewnini	witness
gkenjgewniniiwi	be a witness
gkenmaa	know smb know
gkide	be hidden
gkidmawaa	hide something from
gkidoon	hide sth
gkidwaa	hide something from
gkina	all every 
gkinaa	hide smb
gkinoo'maagzi	be in school
gkinoo'mawaa	teach smb
gkinoomaadiigamik	school school building
gkinoomaagewgamik	school school building
gkinoownaa	guide smb show
gkinwaadendaan	notice sth take
gkinwaadenmaa	notice smb take
gkishi	break through the
gkishin	break through the
gkishmaa	make smb break
gkiza	hide
gkizootwaa	hide from smb
gmaago naa 	a moderate number
gmaa	swallow sth an
gmaapii	eventually later on
gmaapiich	eventually later on
gmiwan	rain precipitate
gmiwnaashi	get caught in
gmiwnooswan	rain a little
gmoodi	steal  2
gmoodin	steal something
gmoodmaa	steal something from
gmoojge	steal things be
gmoojke	steal things be
gna'maage	forbid people tell
gna'mawaa	forbid smb tell
gnaa	be long be
gnaa'aa	lengthen sth an
gnaabiigat	be long of
gnaabiignaa	lengthen sth an
gnaabiignaan	lengthen sth make
gnaabiigzi	be long of
gnaaj-	beautiful goodlooking pretty
gnaaj-	beautiful goodlooking pretty
gnaajwan	be beautiful be
gnaajwi	be beautiful be
gnaakjaane	have a long
gnaakkodaan	cut sth so
gnaakkonaa	cut sth an
gnaakot	be long be
gnaakzi	be long be
gnaatoon	lengthen sth make
gnabach	I think so
gnabenmaa	find smb a
gnagjiibnaa	tickle smb
gnamaawsa	tell people to
gnawaabi	look watch
gnawaabmaa	look at smb
gnawaabndaan	look at sth
gnawaabndamwaa	look at something
gnawaabnjige	watch something usually
gnawaajchigan	blaze on a
gnawendaan	look after sth
gnawendmawaa	look after something
gnawenmaa	look after smb
gndaabiignigan	rudder of a
gndaan	swallow sth
gndaapne	drown
gndaawgo	drown in a
gndam	swallow
gndamoodoon	catch sth with
gndamoojge	fish with a
gndamoonaa	catch sth an
gndamwaa	take the bait
gnebgomeg	lamprey
gnebgowi	be a snake
gnebik	serpent snake
gnengim	after some time
gnepwaa	chew snuff chew
gnesh	long in duration
gnibaakde	burn up quickly
gnibaakwaa	grow quickly 
gnibaakza	burn up quickly
gnibbagaa	grow quickly of
gnibgi	grow quickly
gnibgin	grow quickly
gnibii	be quick at
gnibse	pass quickly of
gnibshkaa	fall out of
gnibshkaa	grow quickly of
gnigjiinh	carp
gnwiindmaa	be deep of
gnik'aan	scoop sth up
gniknaa	scoop sth an
gniknaan	scoop sth up
gnikwaa	scoop sth an
gnimaa	maybe might perhaps
gnisk'aan	scoop sth up
gnisnawgo	be rained out
gniwaabmaa	look at smb
gniwaabndaan	look at sth
gniwaabndamwaa	look at something
gniwendaan	look after sth
gniwendmawaa	look after something
gniwenmaa	look after smb
gnjige	swallow
gnoodaan	talk to sth
gnoodmaagenini	male attorney male
gnoodmaageniniikwe	female attorney female
gnoodmawaa	intercede for smb
gnookmigaa	be long of
gnoonaa	talk to smb
gnoosh-naagan	platter oval plate
gnooyaa	be long be
gnooyaa'aa	lengthen sth an
gnooyaatoon	lengthen sth make
gnoozhe	northern pike
gnoozi	be tall narratives
gnwaa	be long
gnwaa'aa	lengthen sth an
gnwaabiigat	be long of
gnwaabiigdoonedema	cry with ones
gnwaabiigdoonegdaaza	have ones lips
gnwaabiigdoonegoojin	have ones lips
gnwaabiiggaade	have long legs
gnwaabiiggaadeyaa	be long in
gnwaabiiggwewe	have a long
gnwaabiignaa	lengthen sth an
gnwaabiignaan	lengthen sth make
gnwaabiignike	have long arms
gnwaabiignikeyaa	be long in
gnwaabiigzi	be long of
gnwaak'aa	lengthen sthan make
gnwaakdengwe	have a long
gnwaakjaane	have a long
gnwaakkodaan	cut sth so
gnwaakkodmawaa	cut something so
gnwaakkonaa	cut sth an
gnwaakmiishdoon	have a long
gnwaakot	be long be
gnwaaktoon	lengthen sth make
gnwaakzi	be long be
gnwaan'kwe	have long hair
gnwaatoon	lengthen sth make
gnweg'aa	lengthen sth an
gnwegat	be long of
gnweggwaadaan	lengthen sth by
gnweggwaanaa	lengthen sth by
gnwegkodaan	cut sth so
gnwegkonaa	cut sth an
gnwegpiza	wear a long
gnwegtamwaa	lengthen something for
gnwegtawaa	lengthen something for
gnwegtoon	lengthen sth make
gnwegzi	be long of
gnwesh	long in duration
gnwiindgwaanh	be deep of
gnwiindmaa	be deep of
go'aa	clothe smb provide
go'aan	cover sth up
gobzo	have a poultice
gobzon	use something as
god'am	paddle upstream
god'o	paddle upstream swim
godaas	dress
godaashiinh	bluegill crappie rock
godkoniizii	climb up a
godkozhwe	paddle upstream swim
godoomgo	mount a horse
gogwaadaan	sew sth on
gogwaanaa	sew sth an
gojii'aa	put sth an
gojiing	outdoors outside
gojiitoon	put sth away
gojwebnaa	throw sth an
gojwebnaan	throw sth on
gojyi'iing	outdoors outside
gokbinaagan	basket
gokdoon	stick sth on
goke	stick on be
goke	stick on be
gokmidaas	knitted sock
goknaa	stick sth an
gokoomban	cucumber
gokzigaade	be glued on
gokzigaaza	be glued on
gomo	float swim eg
gon'aan	cover sth
gon'odza	cover oneself up
gonaab'igan	eyelid
{n}gonaas	blanket
gonda	these an
{n}gondaagan	throat
gondaagnaabik	stovepipe
gondaagnaapne	get a throat
gondak	these
goneb'aan	cover sth
gonebwaa	cover smb put
gonwaa	cover smb
gonweb'aan	cover sth
gonwebwaa	cover smb
goodaagan	stovepipe
goodaagnaap	support wire for
goodaasa	hang things somewhere
goode	hang
goodkikwaan	kettle hook
goodkikwaaneyaap	kettle chain
goodmawaa	hang something up
goodoon	hang sth hang
goodwaa	hang something up
goog'am	jump from the
googii	dive
googiigwaashkni	jump and dive
googsenh	frog
goojgan	curtain
goojin	hang  2
goojmin	unharvested apple
Gookoo-mnishenying	Seaway Island part
gookook'oo	owl
gookoombenh	cucumber
gookoosh	hog pig 
gookooshens	piglet
gookooshgamik	pig sty
gookoosh-naagan	pig feeding trough
gookooshwaadzi	be like a
gookoosh-wiiyaas	bacon ham pork
gookyenh	very old woman
goon	snow fallen snow
goon	snow
goon'kaa	be a lot
goonaa	hang sth an
goonaaboo	water from melted
goonaagan	tree house
goonens	snowflake Wp 
goongsenh	chipmunk
goopda'oonaa	deal smb shamefully
goopdaadkamik	Its deplorable
goopdendaan	despise sth think
goopdendam	feel humiliated feel
goopdenmaa	despise smb think
goopdizi	be an idiot
goopese	make a confession
goopesewe	hear confessions
goopji'aa	humiliate smb by
goopjinwaa	give smb a
goopzamaa	belittle smb humiliate
gooza	hang
gosesin	be open a
goshkiiwin	fear
goskii	be anxious be
gowaa	cover sth an
gozhe	cover oneself up
gozhe'aan	cover sth with
gozhen	cover oneself up
gozhewaa	cover smb with
gozhewin	blanket quilt
gpagaa	be thick of
gpagaan'kwe	have thick hair
gpagaawngwe	be covered with
gpagaawngwe	be covered with
gpagde	be thick from
gpagdoone	have thick lips
gpaggwaadaan	sew sth so
gpaggwaade	be sewn thick
gpaggwaanaa	sew sth an
gpaggwaaza	be sewn thick
gpagiigat	be thick of
gpagiigzi	be thick of
gpagjiishkwe	be covered thickly
gpagjiishkwe	be covered thickly
gpagkodaan	cut sth thick
gpagkodoon	cut sth thick
gpagkonaa	cut sth an
gpagmoodiiye	be really full
gpagndibe	be thickskulled be
gpagoo-yaa	be thick of
gpagshimaa	pile sth an
gpagshin	lie in a
gpagsidoon	pile sth in
gpagsin	lie in a
gpagzi	be thick of
gpagzide	have thick feet
gpii	go inland go
gpiwdoon	take sth inland
gpiwnaa	take smb inland
gpoodegzi	move ones household
gsaa	be afraid of
gsha	strong expression of
gshi'aa	be shy towards
gshizi	be afraid of
gshkaabka'aan	lock sth lock
gshkaabka'gaade	be locked
gshkaabka'gaaza	be locked
gshkaabka'gan	key
gshkaabkawaa	lock sth an
gshkaandwe	climb
Gshkadin-giizis	Freezeup Moon November
gshkamaa	be able to
gshkamaakdoonetaa	close ones lips
gshkandaan	be able to
gshkapdoon	tie sth up
gshkapjigan	parcel package
gshkapnaa	tie sth an
gshkendam	grieve deeply mourn
gshki'aa	afford sth an
gshki'ewzi	be capable succeed
gshkibdaagan	pouch
gshkibdoon	be able to
gshkibnaa	be able to
gshkibtoo	be able to
gshkidaasebzowin	garter
gshkigwaadaan	sew sth
gshkigwaadmawaa	sew something for
gshkigwaajgan	sewing machine
gshkigwaanaa	sew sth an
gshkigwaasa	sew
gshkigwii	get free of
gshkiiwaa	be airtight of
gshkiiwaabiignige	have ones drapes
gshkiiwaakwaa	lock sth an
gshkiiwaakwaan	lock sth tightly
gshkiiwaakwigaade	be locked tightly
gshkiiwaakwige	lock up a
gshkiiwaan'kot	be tightly closed
gshkiiwshimaa	stick sth an
gshkiiwshin	be secured tightly
gshkiiwsidoon	stick sth in
gshkiiwsin	be secured tightly
gshkikaagon	be affected by
gshkin'kebzowin	arm garter
gshkinaa	be able to
gshkinaamza	get a noseful
gshkinaan	be able to
gshkishewo	wear a shawl
gshkitmaa	be able to
gshkitoo	be able to
gshkitoon	be able to
gshkizo	endure heat
gshko'aa	startle smb surprise
gshko-yaa	be jumpy be
gshkokaa	be stricken realize
gshkomaa	startle smb by
gshkonwaach	suddenly without advance
gshkonwezi	realize something suddenly
gshkose	wake up suddenly
gshkotaa	startle people surprise
gshkotam	be startled by
gshkozi	be awake wake
gshkwaabaawe	be shocked by
gshkwaabaawnaa	shock smb by
gshkwaakbidoon	shake sth hard
gshkwaakbinaa	shake sth an
gshkwaaksa'aa	shake sth an
gshkwaaksatoon	shake sth hard
gshkwaakse	shake
gshkwaawaakdabi	sit in mild
gshkwendam	be surprised by
gshkwenmaa	be surprised at
gshkweyaasdoon	throw a breaking
gshkweyaasin	be a curve
gsinaa	be cold weather
gsinaagzi	have aged visibly
gsingwaadenmaa	consider smb commendable
gsingwaadzi	do something commendable
gtaaji	be afraid be
gtaakwii	sense missing
gtaamgo-yaa	be angry be
gtaamgot	be terrible weather
gtaamgozi	be ferocious be
gtaamgwaanmat	be terribly windy
gtaamgwendiza	think oneself to
gtaamgwewe	make a terrible
gtaan	be afraid of
gtaazmaa	spook smb 
gtigaadaan	plant sth
gtigaade	be planted
gtigaan	field farm 
gtigaanaa	plant sth an
gtigaanens	garden
gtigaaza	be planted
gtigbide	roll while driving
gtigbidoon	tip sth over
gtigbinaa	tip sth an
gtigbiza	roll ones airplane
gtigdaabaan'go	roll ones car
gtige	plant garden 
Gtige-giizis	Planting Moon June
gtige-nini	farmer
gtigjii'aan	tip sth over
gtigjiibdoon	tip sth over
gtigjiibnaa	tip sth an
gtigjiinaa	tip sth an
gtigjiinaan	tip sth over
gtigjiishkaan	tip sth over
gtigjiishkwaa	tip sth an
gtigjiiwaa	tip sth an
gtigjiiweb'aan	tip sth over
gtigjiiwebnaa	tip sth an
gtigjiiwebnaan	tip sth over
gtigjiiwebshkaan	tip sth over
gtigjiiwebshkawaa	tip sth an
gtigjiiwebwaa	tip sth over
gtigmin'gibdoon	roll sth with
gtigmin'gibnaa	roll sth an
gtigmin'gise	roll of small
gtigmin'gise	roll of small
gtigse	roll over accidentally
gtigse	roll over accidentally
gtigshkaa	tip roll of
gtigshkaa	tip roll of
gtigshkaan	tip sth over
gtigshkawaa	tip sth an
gtigwaakw'ige	roll logs
gtigwaashi	be blown over
gtigwaasin	be blown over
gtigwebnaa	tip sth an
gtigwebnaan	tip sth over
gtimaadzi	live a lazy
gtimaasa	be lazy from
gtimgane	feel lazy be
gtimi	be lazy
gtimjiiza	be lazy from
gtimshki	be a lazy
gtizi	be old in
gtwe	regardless despite apparent
gtwena	pull at sth
gtwewbidoon	pull at sth
gtwewbinaa	pull at sth
gwa'aan	chop sth down
gwaa'doon	take sth ashore
gwaa'naa	take sth an
gwaa'oomaa	carry sth an
gwaa'oondaan	carry sth ashore
gwaab'aan	draw sth liquid
gwaab'amwaa	draw water for
gwaab'igan	bucket for drawing
gwaabaawe	be knocked down
gwaabaawe	be knocked down
gwaabde	dock come to
gwaabdoon	pull sth out
gwaabgesi	mullet
gwaabiignaa	fish sth an
gwaabiignaan	fish sth out
gwaabkide	stick to the
gwaabkiza	stick to the
gwaabkizaan	cause sth to
gwaabkizekwe	cause things to
gwaabkizwaa	cause sth an
gwaabnaa	pull sth an
gwaabnaan	pick sth out
gwaabwaa	get sth an
gwaabza	dock come to
gwaadaabaadaan	drag sth ashore
gwaadaabaanaa	drag sth an
gwaadaabii	drag ones boat
gwaaggaade	have grungy legs
gwaaggidgwe	have grungy knees
gwaaggwewe	have a grungy
gwaagnike	have grungy arms
gwaagninjii	have grungy hands
gwaagon	be grungy
gwaagshin	be moldy get
gwaagsin	be moldy get
gwaagwaashknejiins	song sparrow
gwaagwaashknibiinykenh	grasshoppper
gwaagzhe	be grungy all
gwaagzi	be grungy
gwaagzide	have grungy feet
gwaak'odiiwgamik	jail
gwaakdozo	be painfully skinny
gwaakse	fall over from
gwaakse	fall over from
gwaakshin	stick fast cling
gwaaksin	stick fast cling
gwaakwaa	nail sth an
gwaakwaan	nail sth on
gwaakwaapgan	bilge pump bailing
gwaakwaapge	bail ones boat
gwaan'kodyeyaa	be rounded at
gwaanaaso	suffer sunstroke
gwaansagaakginde	be outrageously expensive
gwaansagaakgiza	be outrageously expensive
gwaansamaanaa	sic smb on
gwaapgan	dipper
gwaapge	take a taste
gwaapi	fall over from
gwaasdoon	blow sth over
gwaashi	be blown down
gwaashin	be off the
gwaashkdaandwe	climb out of
gwaashkdaawdoon	unload sth from
gwaashkdaawnaa	unload sth an
gwaashkdoode	crawl out from
gwaashkji'aa	let smb off
gwaashkjitoon	unload sth
gwaashkjwebnaa	throw smb off
gwaashkjwebnaan	throw sth off
gwaashkndaawdaasa	unload things from
gwaashkndaawza	unload ones gang
gwaashkndagoode	fall off from
gwaashkndagoojin	fall off a
gwaashkni	disembark get off
gwaashknjitaasa	unload things from
gwaashknodwaa	jump smb rape
gwaashkwebiise	splash
gwaashkwegnaandaan	hit and deflect
gwaashkweyaasdoon	throw a curve
gwaashkweyaasin	ricochet
gwaashkwezi	be energetic be
gwaashmaa	blow sth an
gwaasin	be blown down
gwaawaadgaa	wade ashore walk
gwaawaanaak	kettle hanger
gwaawaashi	blow ashore sail
gwaawaashkaa	come in to
gwaawaasin	blow ashore sail
gwaawdoon	carry sth out
gwaawe	hang clothes to
gwaaweb'aan	flip sth out
gwaaweb'ogo	be washed ashore
gwaawebnaa	flip sth an
gwaawebnaan	flip sth out
gwaawebwaa	flip sth an
gwaawetmawaa	hang clothes to
gwaawge	scoop food up
gwaawgo	be washed ashore
gwaawnaa	carry sth an
gwaji	fall over from
gwawaa	chop sth an
gwech	generally
gwekaande	change colour turn
gwekaanmat	change direction shift
gwekaanza	change colour turn
gwekbagza	make a quick
gwekbi	turn around while
gwekbide	make a turn
gwekbiza	make a Uturn
gwekboojge	plough in a
gwekdabi	turn around while
gwekendam	change ones mind
gwekgaabwi	turn around while
gwekgwaashkni	turn around jumping
gweki-	change
gweki-zhiwebat	change of weather
gwekii	convert
gwekjiinaa	turn sth an
gwekjiinaan	turn sth around
gwekkozhwe	turn around while
gwekkweni	turn ones head
gwekkweshmaa	turn smbs head
gwekmaa	assure smb of
gwekmatoon	straighten a road
gweknaa	turn sth an
gweknaagot	change in appearance
gweknaagzi	change in appearance
gweknaan	turn sth around
gwekse	alter change
gwekse	alter change of
gwekshe	hear rightly hear
gwekshimaa	turn sth an
gwekshin	turn around lying
gwekshkaa	be correct show
gweksidoon	turn sth around
gweksin	be turned around
gwektwaa	change ones religion
gwekwaajma	be sure of
gwekwaaknige	make definite plans
gwekwaatkamik	for sure in
gwekwebnaa	flip sth an
gwekwebnaan	flip sth around
gwekwendam	be certain be
gwendam	grieve to death
Gweshkw'iwesi	WingedStartler a partridge
gwi'aa	clothe smb provide
gwi'aan	chop sth down
gwi-yekzi	be dogtired
gwibdoon	fell sth pull
gwibnaa	fell sth an
gwibza	be exhausted from
gwiid'aan	lift up sth
gwiid'amii	step up
gwiid'ige	pry things up
gwiidaaban	lift of fog
gwiidbiwin	chair
gwiidnaan	lift up sth
gwiidwaa	lift up sth
gwiigshkweweyaanmat	whistle of wind
gwiijwebnaa	flip sth an
gwiijwebnaan	flip sth heavy
gwiinde	float soak 
gwiingos	chipmunk
gwiingsenh	chipmunk
gwiingwiish	bluejay
gwiini-	aimlessly confusedly indecisively
gwiinjdoon	put sth in
gwiinjin	float soak
gwiinjmaa	put sth an
agwiinjiwii-naagan	float
gwiinwaabmaa	find no sign
gwiinwaabminaagot	be gone disappear
gwiinwaabminaagzi	be gone disappear
gwiinwaabndaan	find no sign
gwiinwi-zhayaa	be bored be
gwiinwipindiza	not know what
gwiinwizhinaagot	look uncertain of
gwiishkshi	whistle
gwiishkshimaa	whistle at smb
gwiishkshindaan	whistle at sth
gwiishkshweweyaanmat	whistle of wind
gwiishksige	smoke foods
gwiishkso	be smoked
gwiishkte	be smoked be
gwiishktemaagot	smell smoky
gwiishktemaagzi	smell smoky
gwiishktewpogot	taste smoky of
gwiishktewpogzi	taste smoky of
gwiishmo	lie down
gwiishmowebgiza	throw oneself down
gwiiwzens	boy
gwiiwzenswi	be a boy
gwiizkaan	lift sth heavy
gwiizkawaa	lift sth an
gwin	wear sth an
gwin'kii	work to death
gwin'kiiyaa	work smb to
gwinaan	piece of cloth
gwinaanan	clothes
gwingshi	doze off fall
gwingshin	doze off fall
gwinnaa	wrestle smb down
gwise	fall over keel
gwise	fall over keel
gwishmo	lie down
gwiwin	garment item of
gwjindaawaakwaadaan	drive sth completely
gwjipdaan	take a taste
gwjipwaa	take a taste
gyaashk	gull tern seabird
gyaashkshenh	seagull
gyaashkshens	common tern seabird
gyak	morally andor behaviourally
gyakshkaa	be correct show
gyakwaajima	relate something accurately
gyakwaajmatwaa	give an accurate
gyakwe	be goodhearted
gyakwendam	be certain be
gyakwi	be good to
gye	and coordinating 
gzaabdoon	sink sth submerge
gzaabii	drown sink
gzaabii	sink eg a
gzaabiidoon	sink sth submerge
gzaabiinaa	sink sthan submerge
gzaabiishkaajgan	sinker
gzaabnaa	sink sth an
gzaabndam	try to see
gzhaabkide	be hot of
gzhaabkiza	be hot of
gzhaabkizaan	heat sth made
gzhaabkizgan	stove  2
gzhaabkizwaa	heat sth an
gzhaadaan	babysit sth take
gzhaadaawsa	babysit
gzhaadge	look after the
gzhaadge'aa	leave smb in
gzhaadgetmawaa	babysit for smb
gzhaadmaagen	take care of
gzhaadmawaa	take care of
gzhaagmide	be hot of
gzhaagmizaan	heat sth liquid
gzhaanaa	babysit smb take
gzhaasge	shine hot of
gzhaate	be hot from
gzhaawendam	be envious be
gzhaawenjge	be envious be
gzhaawenjgeshki	be an envious
gzhaawenmaa	be jealous of
gzhaawsa	be very protective
gzhakmigde	be warm ground
gzhawaa	hurt smb physically
Gzhe-mnidoo	God Creator
gzhi'ewziwin	power
gzhide	be hot of
gzhiibaawgan	have an itchy
gzhiibaawgane	have an itchy
gzhiibaawganebnaa	scratch smbs back
gzhiibaawganeshin	rub ones back
gzhiibbidoon	scratch sth to
gzhiibbikon	have an itchy
gzhiibbinaa	scratch sth an
gzhiibde	go fast 
gzhiibdiiye	have an itchy
gzhiibgaade	have an itchy
gzhiibgwewe	have an itchy
gzhiibgwiiwe	have an itchy
gzhiibii	be itchy itch
gzhiibjaane	have an itchy
gzhiibnagaakninjii	have an itchy
gzhiibnagaakzide	have an itchy
gzhiibndibe	have an itchy
gzhiibninjii	have an itchy
gzhiibshkiinzhgwe	have ones eye
gzhiibtooge	have an itchy
gzhiibza	go fast 
gzhiibzhe	be itchy have
gzhiibzheshkaag	be made itchy
gzhiibzhewashk	itchy weed
gzhiibzhewji	be so cold
gzhiibzide	have an itchy
gzhiigde	be hot of
gzhiijwan	flow fast run
gzhiikaa	be fast go
gzhiikaabtoo	run fast
gzhiikaachge	be on fast
gzhiikzhiwe	paddle fast 
gzhiiwe	be loud speak
gzhiiwgaadese	walk fast
gzhiiwse	walk fast
gzhiiyaanzhe	be bright shine
gzhiiyaanzhe	be bright shine
gzhiiyaaskone	be bright shine
gzhiiyaaskone	be bright shine
gzhikoonaa	hurt smb physically
gzhikooza	be hurt from
gzhikwaa	hurt smb injure
gzhinaamde	be hot and
gzhishin	be hurt by
gzhiza	be hot 
gzhizge	heat up a
gzhizhwigaade'se	become strong in
gzhizhwizi	be strong be
gzhizwaapne	have a fever
gzhizwizi	be full of
gzi	move camp move
gzigganeshin	sprain ones ankle
gzigni	be heavy
gzigon	be heavy
gzigshkoodoon	weigh sth down
gzigshkoonaa	weigh sth an
gzigwan	be heavy
gzigzideshin	twist ones foot
gzii'aan	wipe sth
gzii'o	wipe oneself
gziibiig'igan	detergent soap
gziibiig'ige	wash clothes do
gziibiiggwewe	wash ones neck
gziibiiggwiiwe	wash ones neck
gziibiigiingwe	wash ones face
gziibiignaa	wash sth an
gziibiignaagne	do dishes wash
gziibiignaagne-naagan	dishpan
gziibiignaan	wash sth
gziibiigndibe	wash ones hair
gziibiigndibenaa	wash smbs hair
gziibiignigan	detergent soap
gziibiignige	wash clothes do
gziibiignige-mkak	washing machine
gziibiignigenaagan	dishpan
gziibiigninjii	wash ones hands
gziibiigsagnige	wash woodwork
gziibiigwaa	wash smbs clothes
gziibiigzhe	take a bath
gziibiigzhenaa	bathe smb give
gziibiigzhenaagan	bathtub
gziibiigzide	wash ones feet
gziibiingwe	wash ones face
gziibskomnike	have a creaky
gziibweweshkaa	creak as one
gziidme'o	wipe ones rear
gziidmegan	toilet paper
gziidmew'o	wipe ones rear
gziidoonewaa	wipe smbs mouth
gziigmizaan	parboil sth to
gziigmizwaa	parboil sth an
gziijaane	wipe ones nose
gziijaanewaa	wipe smbs nose
gziinaagne	do dishes wash
gziinaagne'gan	dishcloth dishrag
gziingwe'gan	face towel
gziingwenaagan	basin
gziingweniigin	facecloth
gziingwewaa	wash smbs face
gziingwewo	wash ones face
gziinjaane'gan	kleenex tissue
gziinjii	wash ones hands
gziinjiinaagan	basin
gziinjiishin	wipe ones hands
gziisga'aan	scrub sth made
gziisga'ge	scrub the floor
gziisgawaa	scrub sth an
gziiwaa	wipe sth an
gziiyaabaawdoon	wash sth
gziiyaabaawnaa	wash sth an
gziiyaabka'aan	wipe sth made
gziiyaabkawaa	wipe sth an
gziiyaakw'ige	wipe walls wash
gziizdeshin	wipe ones feet
gziizdeshmowin	doormat
gzikaan	try sth on
gzike	fly up
gzikoonaa	try something on
gzikwaa	try sth an
gzwaabii	drown sink
gzwaabii	sink
haaw	Okay very well
hanshge	Go ahead
hawn	Fire  2
iidik	apparently evidently might
iidok	supposedly probably perhaps
iizan	be pretending
iw	that in 
jaachaama	sneeze
jaachaamzwaa	make smb sneeze
jaachaangaakweb'ogo	be pushed up
jaachaangkweni	nod repeatedly
jaachiigaakndaan	gnaw on sth
jaachiigaaknjige	gnaw on sticklike
jaachiigaakwmaa	gnaw on sth
jaagaajma	run out of
jaagaajmaa	run out of
jaagaajndaan	run out of
jaagaakde	burn up be
jaagaakza	burn up be
jaagaakzaan	burn sth completely
jaagaakzwaa	burn sth an
jaagaapnajge	have spent all
jaagaasdoon	wear sth out
jaagaashi	be worn out
jaagaashmaa	run sth an
jaagaasin	be worn out
jaagbiise	run out be
jaagbiise	run out be
jaagboode	be ground down
jaagdaawe	sell everything sell
jaagdaawen	be sold out
jaagde	burn get burned
jaagena	all sorts of
jaagga'aan	clear sth of
jaagi-	all completely gone
jaagiiwii	be drained of
jaagiiwii'aa	drain sth an
jaagiiwiimgat	be drained of
jaagnanaa	eradicate sth an
jaagnanaa	wipe sth an
jaagnepwaa	run out of
jaagnjige	eat everything
jaagse	run out be
jaagse	run out be
jaagsen	run out of
jaagza	burn get burned
jaagzaan	burn sth
jaagzekwe	burn food in
jaagzigaade	be burned
jaagzigaaza	be burned
jaagzwaa	burn sth an
jaajiigndaan	gnaw on sth
jaajiignjige	gnaw on things
jaajiigwmaa	gnaw on sth
jaangaakshin	lie with ones
jaangaakshkoode	be tilted up
jaangaakshkooza	be tilted up
jaangaaksin	lie with one
jaangaakweni	tilt ones head
jaanmaagmandaan	drink sth hurriedly
jaanmaan'gidoon	chatter talk rapidly
jaanmakmigat	be hectic bustle
jaanmanjge	eat hurriedly
jaanmendam	be in a
jaanmiiwat	be busy bustle
jaanmiiwzi	be busy with
jaanmizhaaza	urinate frequently
jaanmwewdam	call out urgently
jaanmwewemaa	call out to
jechiibaaksenh	rocking chair
jegwaaso	sew
jejense	walk gingerly walk
jejenshimaa	put sth an
jejenshingwaam	sleep daintily sleep
jejensidoon	put sth down
jejiibaan	in separate places
jejiibdakiinh	elephant
jejna	in short intervals
jekaakbatoo	run into the
jekaakbi'we	escape into the
jekaakdaabaadaan	drag sth off
jekaakdaabaan'go	drive into the
jekaakdaabaanaa	drag smb off
jekaakw'am	go into the
jenjii	be all dressed
jenjii-wiisni	eat fancy stuff
jenjngwaam	sleep in luxury
jepaadzi	be agile be
jepzi	be athletic be
jeshkse	strike something headlong
ji-	will shall
Jibwe	Ojibwa Ojibway
Jibwemo	speak Chippewa speak
Jibwemtawaa	speak Chippewa to
Jibwesin	be written in
jichaabi(or jichaabe?) 	be crosseyed
{n}jichaag	my soul spirit
jidkiigaabwi	do a handstand
jidkiisdoon	place sth upside
jidkiise	fall face first
jidkiishin	lie upside down
jidkiishmaa	place sth an
jidkiisin	lie on its
jidkiiyebnaa	throw sth an
jidkiiyebnaan	throw sth upside
jidmoonh	squirrel
jigjigaaneshiinh	Blackcapped chickadee small
jiib'aan	nudge sth with
jiibaakse	rock in a
jiibaakwaa	cook for smb
jiibaakwaage	be the cook
jiibaakwe	cook things do
jiibaakwe-kik	cooking pot
Jiibaatgo-giizhgat	be Friday
jiibaatgon'ge	make the sign
jiibay	ghost spirit soul
jiibbidoon	nudge sth with
jiibbinaa	poke smb with
jiibdaakdabi	sit stiffly
jiibdaakgaabwi	stand stiffly 
jiibdaakgaade	be stifflegged
jiibdaakshin	lie stiffly
jiibdaan'kwe	have straight hair
jiibdabi	make oneself comfortable
jiibewgamik	cemetery tomb
jiibganaamaa	nudge sth an
jiibganaandaan	nudge sth hard
jiibik	root
jiibjigaade	be stifflegged have
jiibjigwewe	have a stiff
jiibjigwiiwe	have a stiff
jiibjiiwaa	nudge smb poke
jiibjin'ke	have a stiff
jiibkenh	root
jiibnaa	nudge sth an
jiibnaan	nudge sth
jiibse	shake momentarily
jiibshkiinzhgwezhkaa	have an eye
jiibwaa	nudge sth an
Jiibyaabooz	Chebayaubos brother of
jiibyaatik	cross crucifix
jiibyamaagot	smell as if
jiibyedaabaan	hearse
jiibyewesin	toll to signal
jiichii	penis
jiichiibaaksenh	rocking chair
jiichiibzideni	move ones feet
jiichiibzidese	tap ones feet
jiichiibzidetaa	move ones feet
jiichiigmikwaadaan	
jiichiigwaakmaa	gnaw on sth
jiichiigwaakndaan	gnaw on sth
jiichiigwaaknjige	gnaw on things
jiichiikzhe'aan	poke sth to
jiichiikzhe'gan	poker for working
jiichiing'o	drum of a
jiichiishkwenh	killdeer bird with
jiidnigwewe	have a stiff
jiidninke	have a stiff
jiidnizi	be strong be
jiig-weyaan	fisher pelt
jiigaagkonaa	cut niblets off
jiigaakshkaan	scrape sth by
jiigaakshkamaagen	scrape something belonging
jiigaakshkamwaa	scrape something belonging
jiigaakshkawaa	scrape sth an
jiigaakwaa	at the edge
jiigaatik	close to the
jiigaawesi	cricket
jiigbiignaandaan	hit a grounder
jiigbiik	at the beach
jiigbiing	at the waterfront
jiigboodoon	shave sth down
jiigboonaa	shave sth an
jiigda'aan	sweep sth
jiigda'gan	broom
jiigda'ge	sweep the floor
jiigen'shkooza	belch from overeating
jiigeni	belch burp
jiigga'aan	shave sth with
jiigga'ge	cut logs into
jiigga'se	finish cutting wood
jiiggamik	close to the
jiiggawaa	shave sth an
jiigi-	near
jiigiyiing	near nearby close
jiigke	hunt fishers
jiigsabak	close to the
jiigshkwaant	near the door
jiigya'ii	nearby close by
jiigya'iing	near nearby close
jiigyi'iing	near nearby close
jiik	fisher animal
jiikaanaa	scale  of
jiimaa	kiss smb
jiimaan	canoe boat
jiimaan'gamik	boathouse
jiimaan'ke	make boats
jiimaanens	canoe ie small
jiimaanenske	make canoes ie
jiimaawsa	kiss a newborn
jiime	paddle
jiinaago	yesterday
jiindaan	kiss sth
jiindiisi	bluejay
jiindiisiinh	bluejay
jiingnabi	sit with ones
jiingnigaabwi	kneel position oneself
jiingnishin	kneel fall on
jiingnitaa	kneel get down
jiingnitwaa	kneel before smb
jiingnoode	crawl on hands
jiingtagaabwi	kneel
jiingtamog	powwow
jiingwe	rumble roar
jiis	turnip LH 
jiisak	fall fair organizers
jiisens	carrot NE 
jiisgiizhgat	be fall fair
jiishaaboode	be washed away
jiishaabooza	be washed away
jiishaagne'aan	clear snow off
jiishaagne'ge	clear snow shovel
jiishaagnewaa	brush snow off
jiishkamga'gan	rake
jiishkamga'ge	rake
jiishweb'aan	sweep sth aside
jiishwebwaa	sweep sth an
jiiskaan	shakers tent used
jiiskii	conjure up spirits
jiiskiiwnini	conjuror shaker in
jiiskiiwniniikwe	female conjuror shaker
jiisnezi	feel a sharp
jiitat	sinew
jiitnaakwegat	be stiff of
jiizhkande	be cleared of
jij'aa	get near to
jikenh	tree stump
jiknaakwii	fold up ones
jina	for a little
jkaakshkaan	be impaled by
jkaakshkawaa	be impaled by
jkanaama	be stung by
jkanooza	be stung by
jkowaa	sting smb
kaa	No
kaa	no
kaawaya 	nobody no one
kaawaya 	nobody no one
kaawiikaa 	never
kaad-kik	pot with legs
kaada-gnebik	alligator crocodile lizard
kaaden'gan	braid
kaaden'ge	braid hair 
kaadenmawaa	braid smbs hair
kaadenswan	be stale get
kaadi-gnebik	alligator crocodile lizard
kaahaakwaanh	chicken hen
kaawiin	no
kaawngegoo 	nothing
kagoo	Canada goose
kajdenh	dried pumpkin a
kajgaa	be shady
kajgaakweyaa	be shady in
kajgaate	be shady
kajgaate'win	umbrella parasol
kajgaateshin	be in the
kajgaatesin	be in the
kajgibiishin	reflect on the
kajgibiisin	reflect on the
kajgibiiyaa	be shady on
kajgishin	be in the
kajgisin	be in the
kakde-dba'gan	builders square
kakdejiiyaa	be square in
kakdejiizi	be square in
kakdeyaa	be square
kakdezi	be square
kakjiish	groundhog woodchuck
kakjiishenh	woodchuck
kakmineshkoojgan	sheller
kakzhe	charcoal a piece
kakzhebwen	roast something in
kamoojiige	take a shortcut
kamwaa	lie in wait
{n'}kan	bone
kanaak	corn cob
kanaak-pwaagan	corn cob pipe
kandmoo	fragrant water lily
kandoo	be on the
{n}kanenh	bone
kanjiish	bud calyx part
kawaabi	watch stand guard
kawaabiiwnini	guard watchman
kawaabmaa	guard smb watch
kawaabndaan	guard sth watch
kawaabndamwaa	guard something for
kawaakwaa	be shady in
kawaate	be shady
kawaatebiishin	reflect on the
kawaatebiisin	reflect on the
kawaateshin	be in the
kawaatesin	be in the
kawe	Hang on a
kawe-	do something first
kawshin	leave tracks
kecha	baseball catcher
kendaagot	be evident be
kendaagzi	be evident be
kendaan	know about sth
kendaasa	be intelligent be
kendmawaa	know something about
kendmoo'aa	let smb know
kendmoo'we	let people know
kendmoonaa	notify smb let
kenjge	be aware of
kenmaa	know smb know
kiwenziinh	old man
kiwenziinywi	be an old
kawesh	for a while
kewgidaazo	be easy to
kewis	herring
ki	earth ground land
kida	say something
kidoo'nagat	be said be
kidoomgat	mean say
kidwin	word saying speech
kii-bmide	kerosene
kiibmidekaan	site where crude
kiikaadaan	spread dirt on
kiikaade	be covered with
kiikaanaa	spread dirt on
kik	kettle  2
kikwaabik	tin tin can
kikzootaadwak	play hide and
kina	all every 
kinoomaadiiwgamik	school school building
kinoomaagewnini	male teacher instructor
kinoomaagewniniikwe	female teacher instructor
kinoomaagzi	be in school
kinoomawaa	teach smb
kinoownaa	counsel smb guide
kinwaadendaan	notice sth take
kinwaadenmaa	notice smb take
kinwaajbiigaade	be marked in
kinwaajbiige	mark things to
kinwaajbiiwaa	mark sth an
kinwaajbiihaan	mark sth to
kiwewin	flag
kiwgamik	root house
kizhebaa-jiibaakwe	cook breakfast cook
kizhebaa-miijin	eat sth for
kizhebaa-wiisni	eat breakfast
kizhebaawii	get up early
kizootaadwak	hide from each
kizootwaa	hide from smb
ko	generally habitally usually
ko-	since from such
ko-gkendaan	as far back
ko-gkenmaa	have known smb
kobiiyaa	pool of water
kobwak	sit crowded together
kodaabiignaa	raise sth an
kodaabiignaan	raise sth with
kodaabiigse	be jerked upwards
kodaanzii	climb climb up
kodaanziiyaakshkooza	climb up weighed
kogaa	get out of
kogaabwi	move out of
kogaan	Get lost Go
koge	assemble be together
kognaa	raise smb of
kognaawsa	raise children
kojiishkdaadwak	huddle together pile
kokbinaagan	basket
kokbinaagnike	make baskets
kokmidaas	knitted sock
kokmidaaske	knit socks make
kokwe	leave tracks for
komo	be a certain
{n'}kon	my liver
kon'gaade	be moved aside
kon'gaaza	be moved aside
kon'kewebnaa	push smbs 
konaama	take a breath
konaans	peel peeling
konaashk	corn husk
konaashkawaa	chase smb away
konaazhwaa	drive smb away
koobdoon	fill sth with
koobii	be filled with
koobii	be filled with
koobnaa	fill sth an
koojiins	louse
koojiish	louse
koojiishwi	get lice have
kookshimaa	arrange sth an
kookshin	be arranged in
kooksidoon	arrange sth in
kooksin	be arranged in
koombenh	cucumber
{n'}koonsh	beak of a
kooshkna'aa	fill sth an
kooshknadoon	fill sth with
kooshkne	be filled with
kooshkne	be filled with
koozde	be a certain
koozi	be a certain
kosdoon	heap sth up
koshin	pile up heap
koshkwaawaakdabi	sit around in
koshmaa	heap sth an
kosin	heap up pile
kosjigaanske	make small haystacks
kosjigan	haystack mound wood
kosjige	make a pile
kosmaan	squash pumpkin
kosmaan	pumpkin  2
kwaa	be a certain
kwaabde	drive a certain
kwaabiigat	be a certain
kwaabiigmawak	be a certain
kwaabiignige	raise the blinds
kwaabiigsa'aa	yank sth an
kwaabiigsatoon	yank sth up
kwaabiigwaa	wind sth an
kwaabiigzi	be a certain
kwaabza	drive a certain
kwaakot	be a certain
kwaaksijge	pile things up
kwaakzi	be a certain
kwaamo	be a certain
kwaandwaagan	stairway flight of
kwaandwe	climb stairs 
kwaashi	blow away be
kwaashmaa	set smb adrift
kwaasin	blow away be
kwaawngisdoon	pile up sth
kwaawngisin	be in a
kwe	woman
kwe-miiknoot	panties womans underpants
kwegaashi	have ones dress
kweji-	try to do
kwewaapne	be girlcrazy be
kwezens	girl
kwezhenzhish	bad girl naughty
kwiindgwaanh	be a certain
kwiinwin	community parish settlement
m'iingan	wolf
m'iingnike	hunt wolves
maa	here emphatic
maa'am	take items to
maaba	this an this
maad'adoon	start to follow
maad'amaaza	begin singing begin
maad'anaa	start to follow
maad'ookii	share
maadaa	ahead of time
maadaabi	stare start looking
maadaangzhe	start a new
maadaapi	start laughing
maadaashi	sway in the
maadaasin	sway in the
maaddema	start crying start
maadgiza	begin of the
maadkamgat	begin start of
maadkozhe	be uncovered have
maadmaazo	begin singing begin
maadnawaa	begin beating smb
maadnokii	start working of
maadwewdam	begin calling out
maagbidoon	press sth squeeze
maagbinaa	press sth an
maage	or
maagjiibnaa	press sth an
maagnige	weave
maagwaakshkaan	pump sth with
maagwaakshkawaa	pump sth an
maagwii	exert extra effort
maagzhenaa	put the squeeze
maagzidebnaa	press on smbs
maajaa	go away leave
maajaamgat	go away leave
maajbagzo	jump as when
maajbiisaa	start raining
maajbiisaan	start raining
maajgwaasa	start to sew
maajii	Jeez of engines
maajii	move ones body
maajii-	begin to do
maajiib'idwak	run off together
maajiibde	depart take off
maajiib'iwe	run away from
maajiibii'gan	outgoing letter
maajiibii'ge	write a letter
maajiibii'getmawaa	write a letter
maajiibii'mawaa	write a letter
maajiibiisaa	start raining
maajiibtoo	start running
maajiibza	depart take off
maajiidaabaan'go	drive away leave
maajiidaabiichge	drive away towing
maajiidaagen	take something away
maajiidmawaa	take something away
maajiidmawaa	take something away
maajiidoon	take sth away
maajiidwaa	take something away
maajiig'aa	cultivate sth an
maajiigi	grow start to
maajiigin	grow start to
maajiigtoon	cultivate sth grow
maajiijwan	flow away start
maajiikaan	begin working on
maajiiknde	stampede away leave
maajiikshin	be on ones
maajiikwaa	begin working on
maajiikwe	leave making tracks
maajiinaa	take sth an
maajiinaashkwaa	send smb to
maajiishkaa	increase in size
maajiishkaa	increase in size
maajiishkaa'aa	make sth an
maajiishkaachgaade	be started get
maajiishkaatoon	make sth start
maajiishkaayendam	think positively
maajiiwaabooza	float away start
maajiiwdamwaa	take something away
maajiiwdawaa	take something away
maajiiwdoon	take sth away
maajiiwewebde	drive away with
maajiiwewebza	drive away with
maajiiwnaa	take smb away
maajiiwzhiwe	take people away
maajiiyaaboode	float away start
maajiiyaabooza	float away start
maajiiyaadgaa	start swimming start
maajiiyaadge	start swimming start
maajiiyaajma	go make a
maajiiyaandwe	climb away start
maajiiyaasdoon	blow sth away
maajiiyaashi	blow away sail
maajiiyaashmaa	blow sth an
maajiiyaasin	blow away sail
maajiiyaawnaak	take a bunch
maajiiyaawnidwak	leave marching leave
maajiiyaawza	lead ones group
maajiiyaaza	take ones gang
maajiiyebde	drive away with
maajiiyebza	drive away with
maajiiyendam	get it into
maajiiyoode	crawl away start
maajiiyoodegzi	cart ones belongings
maajiizhwe	take people away
maajjiwan	flow away start
maajninjiini	move ones hands
maajtaa	begin doing something
maajtaamgat	begin start of
maakshin	be maimed from
maakwii	perform some action
maakzi	be maimed for
maamaang	eyebrow
maamaanh	eyebrow
maamaateshiins	firefly
maamdaa	able to do
maamginaa	collect sth an
maamginaan	collect sth gather
maamiijmaakza	burn ones mouth
maamiikdemo	cry a surprising
maamiiko-	amazingly remarkably
maamiiktaan	be amazed by
maamiiktawaa	be amazed at
maamiikwaabmaa	be amazed at
maamiikwaabndaan	be amazed at
maamiikwaabndamwaa	be amazed at
maamiikwaabnjige	watch with amazement
maamiikwaadaan	brag about sth
maamiikwaajma	give a memorable
maamiikwaajmaa	give a memorable
maamiikwaan'gidoon	brag talk big
maamiikwaanaa	brag about smb
maamiikwendaan	be impressed with
maamiikwendam	be appreciative be
maamiikwenmaa	be impressed with
maamiikwewechge	play lively music
maamiikwi-yaa	be excited in
maamkaadendaan	be amazed at
maamkaadendam	be amazed be
maamkaadenmaa	be amazed at
maamkaadkamik	its amazing its
maamkaadzi	show off
maamkaaztaan	be amazed at
maamkaaztam	be amazed at
maamkaaztawaa	be amazed at
maamkaazaabi	gape at something
maamkaazaabmaa	gape at smb
maamkaazaabndaan	gape at sth
maamnonaabmaa	catch sight of
maamnonaabndaan	notice sth catch
maampii	here  2
maamwi	collectively together taken
maamwi-	all all together
maamwizwak	collaborate work together
maan'kaagon	be made ill
maanaabekwe	mermaid water nymph
maanaad'amii	be uncomfortable in
maanaadat	be misshapen be
maanaadendam	be unhappy be
maanaadendmookaazo	pretend to be
maanaadkamgaa	be rough be
maanaadkonese	misfire of an
maanaadkonese	misfire of an
maanaadshin	be uncomfortable in
maanaadzi	be misshapen be
maanaagwaakmish	sassafras
maanaajgane	feel out of
maanaajganeshkaagon	be made to
maanaaji-	bad evil harmful
maanaaji-bmaadzi	be in poor
maanaaji-doodam	do wrong
maanaaji-yaa	be in poor
maanaaji-zhiyaa	be in poor
maanaajiingweshkaa	be sourfaced have
maanaajmanj'o	feel the onset
maanaajpidaan	dislike the taste
maanaajpogot	taste bad
maanaajpogzi	taste bad
maanaajpwaa	dislike the taste
maanaajshkizi	have a poor
maanaazaabminaagot	look bad look
maanaazaabminaagzi	look bad look
maanaazkaagon	be adversely affected
maanaaznaagot	look bad look
maanaaznaagzi	look bad
maanaaztaan	be offended by
maanaaztawaa	be offended by
maanan	ironwood Eastern hop
maanda	this  2
maandaa	amazing incredible miraculous
maandaa-	amazing incredible miraculous
maandaa-zhiwebat	something amazing happen
maandaa-zhiwebzi	have something miraculous
maanddowak	be big of
maandgokwebgiza	duck ones head
maandgokweshin	lie with ones
maandgon'aan	cover sth completely
maandgonwaa	cover sth an
maandnge	go to ask
maanenmaa	challenge smb challenge
maang	common loon
maangaashkaa	be big be
maangden'gome	have big nostrils
maangkawe	make big tracks
maangnike	have big arms
maangninjii	have big hands
maangshe	have big ears
maangshkiinzhgwe	have big eyes
maangtawge	have big ears
maangte	scatter be scattered
maangzide	have big feet
maanjiinoo-nini	magician peformer
maankik	maple forest
maanmeg	sturgeon
maannoons	ironwood Eastern hop
maanoo	anyhow anyway nevertheless
maanpii	here  2
maanshiins	fawn
maantaanish	sheep
maantaanshens	lamb
maantaan'shiiy'ii	woolen goods
maanten'shiins	lamb
maantenis	sheep
maanwang	fruit
maanzh'aa	beat smb in
maanzhtoon	overpower sth
maapiitaa-	sometime during
maashtaan'shiiwniniikwe	shepherdess
maashtaanish	sheep
maashtaanshiiwgamik	sheep shed
maashtaanshiiwnini	shepherd
maaskaa	brawl be in
maaskaachge	lose control in
maaskaaji-zhiyaa	be in a
maaskaakmigat	be a brawl
maatgozhebnaa	pull the blankets
maatgozhetaa	push ones blankets
maawdaagenmo	anticipate something with
maawmaaw	eyebrow
maawnd'age	collect money from
maawndoo'ge	collect things gather
maawndoogwaadaan	sew sth together
maawndoogwaanaa	sew sth an
maawndoogwaasa	sew things together
maawndoonaa	collect sth an
maawndoonaan	collect sth gather
maawndoonaashkaage	round up cows
maawndoonaashkge	round up cows
maawndoongdaasa	add numbers tally
maawndoonmawaa	gather things up
maawndooshk'igan	rake
maawndooshk'ige	rake hay
maawndooshkaawak	meet gather of
maawndooshkbiiyaa	be marshy pool
maawndooshkgan	rake
maawndowaabkin'ge	collect money pool
maawndowaabkwe	collect money pool
maawndowaakw'aan	hammer sth together
maawnji'aa	gather sth an
maawnji'diwak	assemble gather meet
maawnjibtoo	run and gather
maawnjichge	collect things
maawnjidwak	assemble gather meet
maawnjidwin	meeting
maawnjise	coincide come together
maawnjitoon	collect sth stockpile
maawnjiwewin	gettogether party
maazaabi	hallucinate visually imagine
maazh'aa	beat smb in
maazhbii	be nasty when
maazhde'e	feel nauseous have
maazhdeweb'ogo	be seasick get
maazhi-gnoozhe	muskelunge
maazhi-nmegos	coho salmon
maazhsachge	cause discord
maazhsewak	have a falling
maazhtwaa	win a physical
madaabaawe	wake up from
madaakji	wake up from
madaan'gidoon	wake up talking
madaapne	wake up from
madaapnen	wake up from
madbweza	wake up sweating
madjiiza	wake up from
madnaa	wake smb up
madnaabaagwe	wake up from
madnaandam	wake up from
madsa'aa	jerk smb out
madsaa	visit smb
magii	have a scab
magkii	frog toad
maj'aa	wake smb up
majgidaaza	wake up angry
majwebnaa	wake smb up
mandaagkwe	lady beautiful woman
mandaagnini	gentleman handsome man
mandaago-	beautiful fair handsome
mandoomi	leave tracks
manj	however it may
mansa	be spooked sense
mansadwaa	haunt smb
man'soonh	apparition  2
{n}masat	my abdomen my
masdamoonh	northern water snake
maskdamoonh	water snake
mawaa	extract something for
mazhwe	copulate have sex
mazkawaa	wake smb up
mazmaa	wake smb up
mba	There
mba'aan	elevate sth with
mba'gan	car jack
mba'go	get a swelling
mbaa	be up
mbaabiigbidoon	pull sth up
mbaabiigbinaa	pull sth an
mbaabiignaa	raise sth an
mbaabiignaan	raise sth on
mbaabiignigaade	be hoisted be
mbaabiignigaaza	be hoisted be
mbaabsa	steam smoke
mbaabte	have dust fly
mbaakwaa	jack sth an
mbaakwaan	jack sth up
mbaashi	blow upwards be
mbaasin	blow upwards be
mbaasjigan	airplane
mbaasjigan	balloon kite
mbaazmaagot	stink
mbabgwaashkni	jump up and
mbadnis	button
mbagmide	foam up and
mbagmiza	foam up and
mbagnaandaan	pop up
mbagnde	go up in
mbakne	flare up
mbakne	flare up
mbanegaade	be onelegged have
mbanegaadegwaashkni	hop on one
mbanegaat	on one leg
mbanen'ketaa	use one arm
mbaneshkiinzhgwe	be oneeyed have
mbaneyiing	on one side
mbangza	go up in
mbawaa	elevate sth an
mbazaanwan	be a bazaar
mbazaanwi	have a bazaar
mbazaanwi	spend something at
mbazh'aa	attract smbs romantic
mbazhiikaan	bother sth
mbazhiike	hang around a
mbazhiikwaa	bother smb
mbazhkamgizi	play noisily
mbazhwewesin	ring persistently of
mbazhzi	be tempted to
mbes	base 
mbi-	go up in
mbibde	fly up go
mbibza	fly up go
mbigaadetaa	raise ones leg
mbigi	grow up grow
mbigwaashkni	jump up
mbiig'aa	cause smb to
mbiignanaa	fight with smb
mbiigtaa	cause people to
mbiigwewe	be noisy make
mbiigwewe	be noisy make
mbiigwewebde	be noisy make
mbiigwewebdetoon	make a racket
mbiigwewebza	be noisy make
mbiigwewebzaw'aa	make a racket
mbiigwewedaabii	snore
mbiigwewegnaamaa	make a racket
mbiigwewegnaandaan	make a racket
mbiigwewejaanengwaam	snore
mbiigwewejaaza	urinate loudly
mbiigwewejiigmiza	have ones stomach
mbiigwewejiignaamaa	make a racket
mbiigwewejiignaandaan	see mbiigwewejiignaandaan
mbiigweweshkdiza	defecate loudly
mbiigweweshmaa	flap sth an
mbiigweweyaashi	be noisy from
mbiigweweyaasin	be noisy from
mbiigwewezdebtoo	make noise running
mbiigweyaaktoo	make a racket
mbiigweyaakw'ige	knock noisily on
mbiigzi	be noisy call
mbiigzigan	noise
mbiigziwin	noise
nbiishkaagmi	be watery be
mbijiide	rise in baking
mbijiisin	rise of dough
mbijiisjigan	dough
mbijiiza	rise in baking
mbijiizgan	baking powder 
mbijiizkwegan	yeast
mbin'ketaa	raise ones arm
mbinaa	elevate sth an
mbinaadii	get water
mbinaan	elevate sth lift
mbingoon'wan	be a game
mbingoon'wi	hold a bingo
mbinmoo'aa	get smb to
mbisdoon	set sth to
mbishkaa	ascend go up
mbishkaa	ascend go up
mbisin	rise of dough
mbisjigan	yeast
mbisjige	let dough rise
mbiwdoon	lift sth onto
mbiwnaa	lift sth an
mbizgan	baking soda LH
mbizi	be up
mboomaa	lift sth an
mboondaan	lift sth heavy
mboongzi	be listless
mchaa	be big get
mchaatoon	make sth big
mchidyeshin	lie with ones
mchiigat	be big of
mchiigzi	be big of
mchikan	fence
mchiknaatik	fence rail
mchimsadegaabwi	stand with ones
mchimsadeshin	lie with ones
mchinjiikndaan	eat sth with
mchisak	on the floor
mchishin	lie uncovered
mchisin	lie uncovered
mchiwe-	instead  2
mdaabii	go to the
mdaabiibde	drive from inland
mdaabiibtoo	run to the
mdaabiibtwaadaan	take sth down
mdaabiibtwaanaa	take smb down
mdaabiibza	drive from inland
mdaabiidaabaadaan	drive sth from
mdaabiidaabaanaa	drive smb from
mdaabiiyoodegzi	move ones household
mdaaching	ten times
mdaagwendaan	like sth like
mdaagwenmaa	like smb romantically
mdaamin	corn kernel of
Mdaamin-giizis	September Corn moon
mdaamin-wiin'zis	corn tassle
mdaamnaaboo	corn soup
mdaamniwzide	have corns on
mdaas	sock stocking
mdaasbii'gan	the numeral ten
mdaasgon	for ten days
mdaasgonendi	be absent for
mdaasing	ten times
mdaaske	make socks
mdaaskiins	ten acres of
mdaasoobii'gan	the numeral ten
mdaaswaabiig	ten rows ten
mdaaswaabik	ten dollars tendollar
mdaaswaak	one thousand ten
mdaaswaatik	ten bottles ten
mdaaswek	ten pieces of
mdaaswi	ten
mdaazhenmaa	like smb
mde-	in the distance
mdebde	be heard driving
mdebza	be heard driving
mden'gwiigneshin	drum ones wings
mdesdoon	ring sth of
mdesgishin	fall on the
mdesgisin	fall on the
mdeshkaa	crack ie the
mdeshkaa	crack ie the
mdeshmaa	make noise moving
mdesjige	ring a bell
mdetoo	rattle around
mdewaashi	beat the air
mdewe	crackle make noise
mdewe	crackle make noise
mdewe'aan	beep sth make
mdewechgan	drum musical instrument
mdewechge	play music play
mdewesin	ring sound
mdewewaa	beep sth an
mdewgaan	medicine lodge
mdewiiwin	medicine ritual rite
mdewnini	traditional medicine man
mdezge	shoot set off
mdezwaa	take a shot
mdida	be big be
mdimooyenh	old woman
mdoodoo	take a steam
mdoodoo'aa	give smb a
mdoodoowgamik	steam bath sweat
mdookat	be damp of
mdooksin	get damp from
mdookte	be damp in
mdwebde	be heard driving
mdwebza	be heard driving
mdwechge	play music play
mdwegnaamaa	make sth an
mdwegnaandaan	make sth sound
mdwejaanengwaam	snore
mdwejii'aan	make sth sound
mdwejiigmiza	have ones stomach
mdwejiishin	land with a
mdwejiisin	land with a
mdwejiiwaa	make sth an
mdwejwan	make a sound
mdwen'gwiigneshin	drum ones wings
mdwen'gwiishin	make noise with
mdwesdoon	ring sth of
mdwese	jingle tinkle
mdwesgishin	fall on the
mdwesgisin	fall on the
mdweshin	go off ring
mdweshkaa	crack ie the
mdweshkaa	crack ie the
mdweshmaa	make noise moving
mdwesin	go off ring
mdwesjige	ring a bell
mdwetoo	rattle around
mdwewaajiinh	
mdwewaakdin	crack audibly from
mdwewaapi	laugh audibly
mdwewaashi	make noise from
mdwewaashkaa	be audible of
mdwewe	crackle make noise
mdwewe	crackle make noise
mdwewe'aan	beep sth make
mdwewechgan	drum musical instrument
mdwewechge	play music play
mdwewedaabii	snore
mdweweshin	ring sound
mdwewesin	ring sound
mdwewetoon	play something turn
mdwewewaa	beep sth an
mdwezge	shoot set off
mdwezgedim	be New Years
medaa-Nishnaabe	Indian of another
medaa-nishnaabe	wildman
medsenmaa	miss smb emotionally
medsinaa	miss smb who
medsinaan	miss sth that
medwewebdenh	motorboat
medwewenh	rattler rattlesnake
megwaa	at the moment
megwaach	probably  2
megwaaji-	in the middle
megwaashin	arrive at somebodys
megwaashkwaa	meet up with
megwe-	among in in
megwenh	foreigner of unkown
megwey'iing	in the middle
megyaak	in the woods
megyaakaa	be woodland
megyaakwaang	in the woods
mekde	gunpowder
mekdewkon'ye	black robe priest
mekdewkon'yekwe	nun sister of
mekdewzhet	black person black
memaadwe	sing
memaangshenh	donkey mule
memaangsheyaanh	a type of
memaateshiinh	firefly
memdage	particularly to an
memdage	Ever Jeez remarking
meme	pileated woodpecker
memegwenh	downy woodpecker hairy
memengwaanh	butterfly
memengwenh	butterfly
memengwesi	elf leprechaun
memeshkot	by turns in
memeshkot	alternately
memeskniin'si	redwinged blackbird
memeskniniisi	redtailed hawk
memkaach	bother bother oneself
memmiin	in patches
memoon	Go to sleep
memsaadkon'gwiigaans	bank swallow
memskon'gwiigaans	redwinged blackbird
memtigningwiishenh	general word for
menaagwaakmish	sassafras
mendaagzi	be supposed to
mengjii	burp belch
menmeg	catfish
mensaadkamik	shamefully
men'saadkamik	Shame on you
mensendam	be ashamed be
menshiingwegaabwi	stand looking rueful
menshiingwegaabwi	stand looking foolish
menshimaa	put smb in
menshizi	be fooled due
mensishki	be shy
menwaagmik	pop soft drink
menwendaan	hesitate to discard
menwenmaa	hesitate to discard
meshkdoonaa	exchange sth an
meshkdoonaan	exchange sth trade
meshkdoonmawaa	exchange sth for
meshkot	instead
meshkwaagmik	hard liquor
meshkwisgizit	hardwood hardwood tree
mesin'geyendam	be lonely
meskwendam	wish hope
mesnaa	miss smb emotionally
mesnaan	miss sth emotionally
metwishkwaa	cross smbs path
mewnzha	long ago long
mezweyaanh	maple sugar candy
mgaawebnaa	restrain smb hold
mgi	bark
mgidaan	bark at sth
mginaa	bark at smb
mgiskan	fish hook
mgisknweyaab	fishing line
mgitoo	be suspiciously quiet
mgizi	eagle
mgizwaash	bald eagle
mgokmig'aan	bury sth in
mgokmigaa	be a knob
mgokmigshin	lie buried in
mgokmigsin	be mounds of
mgokmigwaa	bury smb in
mgoos	awl
mgoshkaadendaan	find sth annoying
mgoshkaadendam	fret over problems
mgoshkaadenmaa	find smb annoying
mgoshkaadshin	toss about in
mgoshkaadzi	be tense be
mgoshkaaj'aa	bother smb hassle
mgoshkaaji-yaa	be fidgety be
mgoshkaaji-zhi-yaa	act hassled feel
mgoshkaajiikaage	bother people pester
mgoshkaajiikaageshki	be a constant
mgoshkaajiikwaa	bother smb pester
mgozi	have a boil
miggaade	get scabs on
migii	get scabs get
migiiwin	impetigo scabs 
migiiyiingwe	get pimples get
migkweni	move ones head
migndibe	get scabs on
mignike	get scabs on
migninjii	get scabs on
migshkaas'aa	shake smb
migshkaastoon	shake sth
migwebdoon	shake sth
migwebnaa	shake sth an
migwii	leap up CL
migzhe	get a rash
migziwin	blister boil
mii	thats how thats
mii'sh	and so and
mii'sh	and so so
miidaawendam	see mmiidaawendam
miidaawenmaa	save smb from
miidngwaami	defecate in ones
miigaadaan	fight sth fight
miigaadii'aa	make smb fight
miigaadkwewe	abuse ones wife
miigaadwak	fight each other
miigaadwin	conflict war
miigaanaa	fight smb physically
miigaaza	fight wage a
miigaazoownini	fighter warrior
miigaazshki	be pugnacious
miigaazwin	fight
miigkawaa	hit smb with
miigon	feather
miigshkawaa	affect smb deeply
miigwan	feather
miigwe	give away
miigwech	thank you thanks
miigwechwendam	be grateful be
miigwechwi'aa	thank smb
miigwen	give something give
miigweshki	be generous
miijdaan	defecate on sth
miijgaazo	be given something
miijim	food a serving
miijin	eat sth
miijmaknjigan	fish bait
miijnaa	defecate on smb
miikan	road street
miikganaamaa	hit sth an
miikganaandaan	hit sth dead
miikna	road street
miiknaans	path trail
miiknege	buy things as
miiknewaa	buy sth an
miikne'aan	buy sth as
miiknidwak	be evenly matched
miiknoot	pants slacks trousers
miikse	end up somewhere
miikse	be fitting fit
miiksen	find oneself with
miikshin	hit an exact
miikwaa	hit smb usually
miikwaadzi	be suited to
miikwaagnaa	be a perfect
miikzi	be in ones
miimii	pigeon mourning dove
miimiinh	general word for
miimiins	mayfly
miin	blueberry huckleberry
miin'go'ewzi	be gifted be
miin'go'ewziwin	gift talent
miin'kaan	seed
miin'ke	pick berries pick
Miin-giizis	July Blueberry moon
miinaa	give something to
miinaande	be the colour
miinaanza	be the colour
miinens	hawthorn berry
miinensgaawansh	hawthorn thornapple
miinensmin'gaawansh	hawthorn thornapple
{n}miinjis	a strand of
miinjisaa	have hair
miinjisaakaajgan	wig
miinkaan'gamik	granary
miinkaanens	seed
miinwaa	and  2
miinwan	bear fruit
miinwi	bear fruit
{n}miinzis	have hair
miiseshkaa	fray
miishaaboojiignigan	eyelash
miishaaboojiinaagan	eyelash
miishaakdoone	have a beard
miishaakgaade	have hairy legs
miishaaknike	have hairy arms
miishaakzhe	be hirsute have
miishaateshin	be fuzzy show
miishaatesin	be fuzzy show
miishbiiwye	be furry
miishdiiye	have a hairy
miishdoonaagan	have a moustache
miishdoone	have a moustache
miishgaade	have hairy legs
miishgaakgan	have a hairy
miishgondaagan	a person with
miishgondaagan	a strand of
miishiingwe	have a beard
miishkaakan	have a hairy
miishkiinzhgwaagan	eyelash
miishko-gtigaan	hayfield
miishko-zhgaagwiizhiins	chive plant which
miishkogmik	barn
miishkogwaam	barn
miishkokaa	have a good
miishkoke	cut hay
miishkomiin'kaan	hayseed grass seed
miishkooki	marsh
miishkoonh	weed
miishkoons	grass blade of
miishkoonskaa	be a lot
miishkoonswaande	be grass coloured
miishkoonswaanza	be grass coloured
miishkosh	weed
miishkwaan	a strand of
miishmat	tripe prepared as
miishnike	have hairy arms
miishninjii	have hairy hands
miishtawge	have hairy ears
miishzhe	be hirsute have
miiw'aa	drive smb away
miiwaapnemaa	drive smb away
miiwaashkwaa	avoid smb
miizhaawendam	be distressed about
miizhaawshkoozo	struggle under a
miizhash	a blade of
miizhmin	acorn of the
miizhmish	white oak
miizii	defecate
miiziiwaagan	privy toilet
miiziiwgamik	bathroom outhouse
mijigekekoo	an owl 
bmijwaagaakot	hoe
mik	beaver
mik-weyaan	beaver pelt
mikgamik	beaver lodge
mikogbaakw'igan	beaver dam
mikwaash	beaver lodge
minaadzi	be fussy about
minbii	be high on
{n}miniingwaagan	sand in ones
{n}miniingwaan	sand in my
miniingwe	have sand in
minj	however it may
minkwe	drink and drink
minoonkenh	smokehole
minwaa	the other one
misksii	water bug
mji-	bad evil mischievous
mji-	badly evilly
mji-bmaadzi	be evil live
mji-doodwaa	mistreat smb treat
mji-giizhwaanaa	curse at smb
mji-giizhwe	curse swear
mji-gnoozhe	muskelunge large predatory
mji-jichaak	evil spirit
mji-mnidoo	devil evil spirit
mji-mnidoonaang	hell in hell
mji-mshkiki	bad medicine narcotic
mjidwe	order things place
mjidwen	order something have
mjidwetmawaa	order something for
mjigaawan	glove mitten
mjigiigda	curse swear
mjigkan	fence
mjigoode	dress
mjigoodenh	dress skirt
mjiikwewis	eldest daughter
mjiikwis	eldest son
mjikaawan	mitten glove
mjinkaawan	mitten glove
mkaan	find sth
mkaanj'igo	come upon a
mkade-	black
mkade-bgiw	tar
mkade-mskomin	blackberry
mkade-pakne	cricket
mkade-wiiyaas	black man racially
mkadekaadaan	give sth up
mkadekaanaa	give sth an
mkadeke	fast give something
mkadeke-giizhgat	be a fasting
mkadewaa	be black
mkadewaabkat	be black of
mkadewaabkizi	be black of
mkadewaagmiingwe	have black eyes
mkadewaan'kot	be black of
mkadewaan'kwe	be black haired
mkadewnini	black man racially
mkadewshkiinzhgwaan	pupil of the
mkadewzi	be black of
mkadeyaa	be black of
mkadeyaas	black man racially
mkadeyaas-kwe	black woman
mkadeyaasa	be dark from
mkak	box chest 
mkakoons	quart dry measure
mkaksak	barrel
mkamaa	seize something from
mkamwaa	find something belonging
mkandwe	seize something from
mkandwen	seize something snatch
mkawaa	find smb
mkawaamaa	remind smb to
mkawaanaa	greet smb effusively
mkawaangzhe	find a job
mkawi	come to wake
mkinaak	turtle
mkizin	tire
mkizin	boot shoe moccasin
mko	bear
mko-dsoonaagan	bear trap
Mko-giizis	February Bear moon
mkobdoon	find sth while
mkobnaa	find sth an
mkodaawe	find a buyer
mkodaawen	find a buyer
mkojiinaa	find sth an
mkojiinaan	find sth while
mkom	ice piece of
mkomii-mkak	ice box freezer
mkomii-taaswin	refrigerator
mkomiibiisaa	hail
mkomiibiisaan	hail
mkomiidamat	be icy of
mkomiins	icicle ice cube
mkomiiwaaboo	ice water
mkomiiwaagmi	be ice cold
mkomiiwan	be icecovered be
mkomiiwgamik	ice house freezer
mkomiiwi	be ice turn
mkomiiwninjii	have icecold hands
mkomiiwzide	have icecold feet
mkomnaanwan	be sleet sleet
mkomsak	barrel
mkoshin	find ones way
mkwa	bear
mkwaand	ringshaped handle
mkwaangzhe	find a job
mkwendaan	bear sth in
mkwenmaa	keep smb in
mma'iing	out in the
mmaa	remove sth an
mmaachaa	be big of
mmaachdemgat	be wide
mmaadaashi	move slightly in
mmaadaasin	move slightly in
mmaadkweni	move ones head
mmaadkwetaa	move ones head
mmaadnaa	move sth an
mmaadnaan	move sth slightly
mmaadwe	groan moan
mmaadzideni	move ones feet
mmaadzidetaa	move ones feet
mmaajii	move ones body
mmaajninjiini	move ones hands
mmaakwii	perform some action
mmaandaa	amazing incredible miraculous
mmaandaa-	amazing incredible miraculously
mmaandaa-zhiwebat	something amazing happen
mmaandaa-zhiwebzi	have something miraculous
mmaandaawaabi	see an amazing
mmaandaawaajma	relate an amazing
mmaandaawaabndam	have an amazing
mmaanddowak	be big of
mmaandnge	go to ask
mmaangden'gome	have big nostrils
mmaangkawe	make big tracks
mmaangnike	have big arms
mmaangninjii	have big hands
mmaangnowe	have big cheeks
mmaangshe	have big ears
mmaangshkiinzhgwe	have big eyes
mmaangshkiinzhgweni	have ones eyes
mmaangshkiinzhgweshkaa	have ones eyes
mmaangshkiinzhgwetaa	have ones eyes
mmaangtawge	have big ears
mmaangzide	have big feet
mmaanjmizi	be paralyzed
mmaaskaa	budge move shift
mmaaskaa	budge move shift
mmaaskaachge	lose control in
mmaazaabi	hallucinate visually imagine
mmaazhiiwii	be bad at
mmagwii	move stir
mmanjge	snack
nmanjii	be lefthanded
mmawaa	extract something for
mmazhwe	copulate have sex
mmemmiin	in patches here
mmendaaji-	want to do
mmendaajse	want to do
mmendaajtoo	want to stay
mmenwendaan	hesitate to discard
mmenwenmaa	hesitate to discard
mmeskwendam	wish hope
mmigkweni	move ones head
mmigkwetaa	move ones head
mmigsa'aa	shake sth an
mmigsatoon	shake sth
mmigshkaas'aa	shake smb
mmigshkaastoon	shake sth
mmigwebdoon	shake sth
mmigwebnaa	shake sth an
mmigwii	leap up CL
mmiidaawenmaa	be impatient to
mmiizniboodoon	carve sth intricately
mmiizniboonaa	carve sth an
mmiiznin'ge	gesture
mmin'kwe	drink and drink
mminbii	be high on
mmoon	remove sth take
mna'aa	give smb a
mna'mii	be comfortable in
mnaa	copulate with smb
mnaabaawe	be soaked
mnaabaawe	be soaked
mnaabi	see well have
mnaabji'aa	make good use
mnaabjitoon	make good use
mnaabmewzi	be fortunate be
mnaabmewziiwaadzi	be born lucky
mnaabminaagwat	look beautiful look
mnaabminaagzi	look beautiful look
mnaabmiwewzi	be fortunate be
mnaabndam	see a good
mnaabndiza	like the way
mnaadendaan	honour sth respect
mnaadenmaa	honour smb respect
mnaadzi	live well
mnaagii	be good in
mnaagjiinh	bedbug stinkbug
mnaagjiis	stinkbug bedbug
mnaagmaagot	stink
mnaagmaagzi	stink
mnaagmi	taste good of
mnaagmipdaan	like the taste
mnaaj'aa	commemorate smb honour
mnaajmaa	give a good
mnaajmaamaa	smell smb
mnaajmaandaan	smell sth
mnaajmatwaa	give a good
mnaajndaan	give a good
mnaajtoon	commemorate sth honour
mnaan'gozi	be cheerful be
mnaangwendam	be cheerful be
mnaanmat	be a nice
mnaasge	shine brightly of
mnabi	be comfortable sitting
mnabiiyaa	be nice be
mnade	be cooked be
mnagaade	have nice legs
mnagaama	be nicely fat
mnagnde	be a good
mnagne	feel refreshed feel
mnagza	be a good
mnajiin'ge	have a good
mnajwan	flow nicely flow
mnakaan	fit sth nicely
mnamat	be nice of
mnangwaam	sleep well
mnanigkwaa	be the right
mnanigni	be the right
mnanish	its a good
mnashkzi	have a good
mnataan	like the sound
mnatwaa	like the sound
mndaadendaan	honour sth respect
mndaadenmaa	honour smb respect
mndekdawaa	appropriate something from
mnegshin	lie evenly lie
mnegsin	lie evenly lie
mnendaagzi	enjoy oneself have
mnendaan	like sth be
mnendam	be content be
mnenmaa	be interested in
mnepwaa	be in need
mneshkaa	be needed
mneshkaa	be needed
mngaabkat	be big become
mngaabkizi	be big grow
mngaateshmaa	enlarge sth an
mngadebiiyaa	be wide of
mngadeyaa	be wide
mngadezi	be wide
mngagmaa	be big grow
mngidoon	have a big
mngidoone	have a big
mngiingwe	have a big
mngijiimnagat	be large and
mngijiimnagzi	be large and
mngimnagaa	be big of
mngimnagat	be big of
mngimnagzi	be big of
mngimsade	have a big
mngindbe	have a big
mnginke	have a big
mngizde	have a big
mnidoo	spirit supernatural being
Mnidoo-mnising	Manitoulin Island
mnidookaazo	do magic perform
mnidooke	conduct a traditional
mnidoomin	bead
mnidoomnens	bead
mnidoomnens	bead
mnidoons	bug insect
mnidoosh	bug caterpillar insect
mnidooshens	gnat
Mnidoowaanzhing	Manitowaning Ont place
mnidoowegnaa	use supernatural powers
mnidoowegnige	use supernatural powers
mnidoowi	be a spirit
mnii	be in a
mniiw	pus
mniiwaashkwaa	cross smbs path
mniiwan	have pus be
mniiwi	have pus
mnijiimin	pea peas
mnik	so many so
mnik	Enough
mnik-dshing	number of times
mnikwaadaan	spend sth on
mnikwaajgan	dipper pitcher 
mnikwaajge	spend ones money
mnikwaanaa	use sth an
mnikwe	drink
mnikwechge	take livestock to
mnikwen	drink something 
mnikwewgamik	bar ie an
mnikwewin	alcoholic beverage alcoholic
mnikwewnisiinh	drunkard
mninaak	No way any
mnis	island
mnise	cut firewood
Mnisenh	Munising Michigan 
mnisenh	island
mnisetmawaa	cut firewood for
Mnishenh	Walpole Island Ont
mnishenh	island
mnismawaa	cut wood for
mniswaa	cut wood for
mnji'aa	give smb a
mnjidwe	order things to
mnjidwen	order something to
mnjiggaadenaa	hold smbs leg
mnjignaa	hold on to
mnjignaan	hold on to
mnjignamaakwii	hold on
mnjignamwaa	hold something for
mnjignige	hold on to
mnjigshkaan	hold sth down
mnjigshkawaa	hold sth an
mnjijmaa	ask smb to
mnjimaabmaa	keep smb in
mnjimaabndaan	keep sth in
mnjimaakw'aan	clamp sth down
mnjimaakwaa	clamp sth an
mnjimaakwaan	see mnjimaakwaan
mnjimbi'we	take refuge somewhere
mnjimnaa	detain smb 
mnjimnaan	hold sth hold
mnjimnamwaa	hold something for
mnjimshin	be secured somewhere
mnjimshkaan	keep sth down
mnjimshkawaa	keep smb down
mnjimshkoodoon	keep sth down
mnjimshkoonaa	keep sth an
mnjimsin	be secured somewhere
mno'oonaa	give smb a
mno-	good well 
mno-bmaadzi	be doing well
mno-giizhgat	be a nice
mno-jichaak	good spirit
mno-maajiishkaa	make good progress
mno-mkaan	find sth to
mno-mkawaa	find sth an
mno-nendam	be content be
mno-pii	just the right
mno-piichbii	be moderately intoxicated
mno-piichpogot	be seasoned just
mno-piichpogzi	be seasoned just
mno-piitaagmi	be just the
mno-piitaagmide	be just the
mno-piitaapkide	be just the
mno-piitaapkiza	be just the
mno-yaa	be content be
mno-zhiwebat	be nice out
mno-zhiyaa	be in good
mno-zhiyaamgat	feel good
mnobde	drive well fly
mnobii	be a little
mnobwaame	have nice thighs
mnobza	drive well fly
mnochge	act right do
mnogaabwi	adopt a comfortable
mnogchige	produce a good
mnogi	grow well
mnogin	grow well
mnokbaa	be nicely grown
mnokmigaa	be good of
mnokmii	be surefooted have
mnomaagot	have a nice
mnomaagzi	have a nice
mnomaamaa	like the smell
mnomaandaan	like the smell
mnomaasaawe	make a savoury
mnomaasge	make a nice
mnomaaso	smell good of
mnomaate	smell good of
mnomnji'o	feel good emotionally
mnonaagot	look well
mnonaagzi	look well
mnongwaamo	sleep well
mnookmi	be spring be
mnoomin	oats rice
mnoomnikeshiinh	king rail species
mnopdaan	have sth taste
mnopgot	taste good taste
mnopgozi	taste good taste
mnopwaa	have sth an
mnoshin	be in a
mnosin	be nicely positioned
mnotaagot	sound good of
mnotaagzi	sound good
mnowaan'gozi	be cheerful be
mnowendaan	say good things
mnowenmaa	say good things
mnozaan	cook sth
mnozekwe	be done baking
mnozmawaa	cook something for
mnaza	be cooked be
mnozwaa	cook sth an
mnwaabaawe	be soaked
mnwaabaawe	be soaked
mnwaabdat	be handy be
mnwaabdizi	be handy be
mnwaabewzi	be shapely have
mnwaabi	see well have
mnwaabiig'ige	have a nice
mnwaabmew'iwewin	blessing by a
mnwaabmewzi	be fortunate be
mnwaabmewziiwaadzi	be born lucky
mnwaabmewziwin	good luck
mnwaabmiwewzi	be fortunate be
mnwaabndam	see a good
mnwaabndiza	like the way
mnwaadzi	live well
mnwaagmi	taste good of
mnwaagmipdaan	like the taste
mnwaajmaa	give a good
mnwaajndaan	give a good
mnwaaksa'diwak	get along well
mnwaan'gozi	be cheerful be
mnwaan'kwe	have nice hair
mnwaangoondwak	get along well
mnwaangwendam	be cheerful be
mnwaanmat	be a nice
mnwaasge	shine brightly of
mnwaatese	be good be
mnwaatese	be good be
mnwegshin	lie evenly lie
mnwegsin	lie evenly lie
mnwekse	be a nice
mnwendaagot	be enjoyable be
mnwendaagzi	enjoy oneself have
mnwendaan	like sth be
mnwendam	be content be
mnwenmaa	be interested in
mnwewechge	play good music
mnwii	be in a
mogo	have cancer
moo	feces
mooday	bottle jar quart
moodiiye	be full of
moodyens	vial
moodyikaa	be a lot
mookaaddaan	disclose information about
mookaajma	disclose information divulge
mookbiise	pop to the
mookbiise	pop to the
mookdaasa	carve wood whittle
mookdaasoonh	carpenter wood carver
mookdaasoonini	carpenter
mookdaaswin	carpenters horse shaving
mookiitaan	attack sth
mookiitam	attack make an
mookiitwaa	assault smb attack
mookjigan	drawknife tool for
mookmaan	knife
mookmaanens	penknife
mooknaa	bring sth an
mooknaan	bring sth out
mooknige	bring things out
mookse	come to the
mookse	come to the
mookwaakii	cry after somebody
mookwaanaa	cry after smb
moon	remove sth take
moon'aan	dig sth up
moon'amwaa	dig something up
moon'angoonh	a species of
moon'apnii	dig potatoes harvest
moon'ashkiwe	dig medicinal herbs
moon'gonenh	yellowshafted flicker species
moon'igan	mine LH 
moon'ige	dig mine
moondiiwaa	charge at smb
moonendam	imagine suspect
moonenjge	suspect something
moonenmaa	suspect that smb
moonshkwe	weed pull weeds
moonwaa	dig sth an
Moonyaang	Montreal Quebec
moos	moose
moose	caterpillar
mooshens	blackfly
mooshkaan	flood there be
mooshk'ogo	be flooded get
mooshk'om	call of the
mooshk'oodoon	flood sth
mooshk'oonaa	drown smb flood
mooshk'osi	American bittern bird
mooshk'an	flood there be
mooshkaabwaadaan	fill sth up
mooshkaabwaanaa	fill sth an
mooshkaabwe	get a fillup
mooshkas	
mooshkmo	appear surface emerge
mooshknadmawaa	fill something for
mooshknadoon	fill sth
mooshknadwaa	fill something for
mooshknanaa	fill sth an
mooshkne	be full to
mooshkne	be full of
mooshknebdoon	fill sth with
mooshknebii	be full of
mooshknebii	be full of
mooshknebiige	fill out a
mooshknebnaa	fill sth an
mooshknejiin'ge	have a full
mooshkneyaabikizi	be full of
mooshkneyaatesin	fill up the
mooshwegaans	handkerchief
mooshwen	shawl
mooshwen	shawl
mooshweniigaans	handkerchief
mooshweniigin	curtain
mooskadoo	box turtle
moowich	feces shit
moowich!	Oh crap Shit
moowiins	animal droppings feces
moowjikese	brownheaded cowbird
moozh'aa	feel the touch
moozho	get a haircut
moozh'owe	give haircuts
moozhgin'ge	gather things up
moozhginaa	collect sth an
moozhginaan	collect sth gather
moozhgiweb'aan	sweep up sthinto
moozhgiwebwaa	sweep up sth
moozhtoon	feel the touch
moozhwaa	cut smbs hair
moozhwaagan	scissors
moozmish	a type of
msag	tree stump
msan	firewood  Wk
msawaa	even although
msawendaan	covet sth be
msawendam	be bold
msawenmaa	covet sth an
msawnaajge	find something attractive
msawnaan	be attracted by
msawnamaagen	be attracted by
msawnawaa	be attracted by
msawnige	like what one
msendaan	benefit from sth
msenmaa	benefit from sth
mshi	yet
mshi	piece of firewood
mshi-	big
mshibzhii	lion
Mshibzhii	the Great Lynx
mshibzhiw	lion
Mshibzhiw	the Great Lynx
mshigekek	roughlegged hawk
mshigmik	woodshed
mshiikenh	snapping turtle
mshiiknaakoons	baby snapping turtle
mshiimin	apple
mshiimnaaboo	apple cider
mshiimnaatik	apple tree
mshiimnagaawanzh	apple tree
mshiimnens	slice of apple
mshiiwan	die of a
mshiiwi	die of trees
mshkikiininiikwe	female nurse 
mshkawaa	be hard be
mshkawaadgaa	be a strong
mshkawaadge	be a strong
mshkawaagkamgidin	be frozen solid
mshkawaagmi	be strong to
mshkawaagmichge	make a strong
mshkawaagmitoon	make sth strong
mshkawaakdin	freeze solid be
mshkawaakdooneni	close ones mouth
mshkawaakiingwewji	freeze ones face
mshkawaakiingwewji	freeze ones face
mshkawaakji	freeze solid be
mshkawaakndibe	be obstinate be
mshkawaakninjiiwji	freeze ones hands
mshkawaakot	be hard of
mshkawaaktawgewji	freeze ones ears
mshkawaakwaa	screw sth an
mshkawaakwaan	screw sth on
mshkawaakwegat	be tough of
mshkawaakwegzi	be tough of
mshkawaakzi	be a hardwood
mshkawde	be hardened by
mshkawdin	freeze solid be
mshkawendam	be determined be
mshkawendiza	act tough think
mshkawgaabwi	stand solidly
mshkawgizi	be hard of
mshkawjaanewji	freeze ones nose
mshkawji	freeze solid be
mshkawjiiyaa	be hard of
mshkawjiizi	be hard of
mshkawkamgaa	be hard of
mshkawmin'gaa	be hard of
mshkawmin'gizi	hard corn kernel
mshkawmin'gizi	be hard of
mshkawnamaakwii	hang on tightly
mshkawninjiiwji	get frostbite on
mshkawpidoon	tie sth tight
mshkawpinaa	tie sth an
mshkawsagzi	be hard of
mshkawse	strongly
mshkawshin	be stuck fast
mshkawsin	be stuck fast
mshkawtagat	be strong of
mshkawyaa	be hard
mshkawzi	be powerful be
mshkawzii	be powerful be
mshkawziikaazo	pretend to be
mshkawziiwin	strength power
mshkawzo	be hardened by
mshkiig	marsh swamp 
mshkiigki	marshland a marshy
mshkiigmin	cranberry
Mshkiigong	Muskegon Mich
mshkiigwaatik	tamarack a type
mshkiki	medicine medicinal drug
mshkikiikaandiza	put medicine on
mshkikiike	make medicine
mshkikiins	pill
mshkikiiwaagmi	be curative be
mshkikiiwan	be medicinal be
mshkikiiwi	be medicinal be
mshkikiiwnini	male doctor herbalist
mshkikiiwniniiwi	be a physician
mshkikwaaboo	tonic liquid medicine
mshkikwaabookaadaan	make medicinal tonic
mshkikwaabookwaa	make medicinal tonic
mshkimot	bag sack 
mshkode	clearing plain prairie
mshkode	fire
mshkode-bne	bobwhite small brown
mshkode-daabaan	train
mshkode-jiimaan	steamboat
mshkode-miizhmish	northern red oak
Mshkodewenying	Flint Mich
msko-	red
msko-jiis	beet
msko-jiisens	radish
mskokon'ye	dress in red
msko-nagek	cinnamon cinnamon stick
msko-tisaan	paint sth red
mskobgonii	have red flowers
mskobgonii	have red flowers
mskobiikot	be red sky
mskodiismin	bean
mskodoonechgan	lipstick
mskodoonechge	put on lipstick
mskodsaan	paint sth red
mskogmik	red building
mskokmigaa	be red of
mskoknowe	dress in red
mskomin	raspberry
mskomnagaawanzh	raspberry bush
mskondbe	be a redhead
mskonwe	have red cheeks
mskosnii	brick
mskosniigamik	brick building
mskozhe	have ones skin
mskozi	be red
mskwaa	be red
mskwaaban	glow red 
mskwaabiimnagoons	red osier a
mskwaabiimzhiins	red osier a
mskwaabkide	be red hot
mskwaabkiza	be red hot
mskwaadesiinh	mud turtle painted
mskwaan'kot	red cloud
mskwaan'kot	be red of
mskwaande	be coloured red
mskwaandip	copperhead snake
mskwaankwat	red cloud
mskwaanza	be coloured red
mskwaanzaan	colour sth red
mskwaanzhe	be red of
mskwaanzhese	turn red of
mskwaanzwaa	colour sth red
mskwaasa	be red from
mskwaasechgan	red sash
mskwegat	be red of
mskwegin	a piece of
mskwegzi	be red of
mskwi	blood
mskwiingwe	blush be redfaced
mskwiingwese	blush suddenly
mskwiiwaabiigat	be all bloody
mskwiiwaabiigzi	be all bloody
mskwiiwaakgaade	have ones leg
mskwiiwaaknike	have ones arm
mskwiiwaakot	be covered with
mskwiiwaakzi	be covered with
mskwiiwaan'giingwe	have a bloody
mskwiiwan	bleed be bloody
mskwiiwegat	be bloody of
mskwiiwegzi	be bloody of
mskwiiwgaade	have ones leg
mskwiiwi	bleed be bloody
mskwiiwjaane	get a nosebleed
mskwiiwjiibik	bloodroot
Mskwiiwjiibkokaaning	Sandfield Ont
mskwiiwnike	have a bloody
mskwiiwninjii	have ones hand
mskon'kisin	be redhot of
mtaakdiiye	have no pants
mtaakgaade	be barelegged
mtaaknike	have bare arms
mtaakzhe	be naked be
mtaakzhebi	sit naked
mtaakzhebnaa	pull off smbs
mtaakzhengwaam	sleep in the
mtaakzheshin	lie naked
mtakmigaa	be bare of
mtakmik	on the ground
mtashkamik	on the ground
mtawdoon	go by foot
mtig-zhiishiigwenh	chameleon 
mtiggamik	log cabin
mtigke	harvest lumber
mtigmin	acorn of the
mtigmish	pin oak
mtignaagan	wooden bowl
mtigndibe	be a blockhead
mtigo-dsoonaagan	wooden trap
mtigoons	stick of wood
mtigoonskaa	have many small
mtigoonski	an area with
mtigwaabaak	hickory
mtigwaabiins	icefishing pole
mtigwaaboo	sap
mtigwaaki	forest woodland
mtigwaakiins	stand of trees
mtigwaap	bow archery
mtigweyaab	bowstring archery
mtik	tree
mtik	piece of wood
mwaa	eat sth an
mwadshiwe	visit people
mwi	cry weep
mwi'aa	make smb cry
mwi'aawso	have the children
mwikaaza	pretend to cry
mwin'zhiwe	butt strike with
mwinaans	screech owl
mwinege	air a grievance
mwinewaa	air a grievance
mwizo	pick berries
myaa	exactly precisely
myaanaadat	be a temptation
myaaw	exactly at the
myaawdabi	sit upright
myaawdib	right on the
myaawganaamaa	hit smb accurately
myaawganaandaan	hit sth accurately
myaawnaa	raise sth an
myaawnaan	raise sth upright
myaawshimaa	place sth an
myaawshin	be placed upright
myaawsidoon	place sth upright
myaawsin	be placed upright
myaawyi'iing	exactly in the
myagaabmaa	have smb strike
myagaabndaan	have sth look
myagi-	foreign strange
myagi-baag'aakwaanh	ringneck pheasant
myagi-zhiyaa	act strange be
myagizi	be a stranger
myagnaagot	look strange
myagnaagzi	look strange
myagnishnaabe	stranger foreigner
myagnjige	eat food that
myegshkizi	have a strange
mzaan	burdock a type
mzaanwaakzi	be covered in
mzay	red hake burbot
mzhaaboos	goat
mzhakot	be clear be
mzhiikdaan	cut sth off
mzhiikde	be cut off
mzhiiknaa	cut sth an
mzhiin'ge	clear things away
mzhiinaan	clear sth clear
mzhiiyaabde	be toothless
mzhiiyaabdebnaa	pull smbs teeth
mzhiiyaagne'ge	clear a path
mzhikaagon	be hurt by
mzhikiise	have sediments settle
mzhikmewzi	have misfortune fall
mzhikoonaa	hurt smb with
mzhikooza	be wounded
mzhikwaa	hurt smb with
mzhin'ge	come down with
mzhisdoon	scrape sth
mzhisha	in full view
mzhishi	in plain view
mzhishik	nothing but
mzhishmaa	scrape sth an
mzhiwens	cottontail rabbit
mzhodaan	hit sth with
mzhodmawaa	shoot something belonging
mzhwaa	hit smb with
mzhwaagniwi	be a wounded
mzhwe	cottontail rabbit
mzi	everywhere
mzimin	wheat
mzimnens	grain of wheat
mzin'aan	charge sth buy
mzin'amwaa	buy something from
mzin'igaans	playing card
mzin'igan	paper piece of
mzin'ige	buy on credit
mzin'igewaanh	idol image statue
mzin'igni-mkak	cardboard box
mzin'ignike	make a will
mzin'ignikwaa	leave property to
mzin'kodaan	carve sth
mzin'kojge	carve
mzin'konaa	carve sth an
mzinaade	be a photograph
mzinaaksijgan	camera
mzinaakzigan	camera  2
mzinaakzige	print with a
mzinaatese	be on TV
mzinaatese	be on TV
mzinaateshin	be a projected
mzinaatesin	be a projected
mzinaatesjigan	movie projector television
mzinaatesjige	show movies
mzinaaza	be a photograph
mzinaazgan	camera Wk 
mzinbii'aan	draw a picture
mzinbii'ge	draw
mzinbii'gewnini	artist
mzinbiigewnini	artist
mzinbiiwaa	draw a picture
mzinboodoon	carve sth with
mzinboonaa	carve sth an
mzinbooza	ice skate figures
mzinchigan	picture painting
mzinchigan	picture
mziniingweshin	have ones face
mzinniinh	statue  2
mzinshin	be imprinted on
mzinsin	be imprinted on
mzinwaa	charge sth an
mzisaak	horsefly
mzise	turkey
mzise-miijim	species of fern
mzitaagzi	call cry out
mziwe-	all in one
mziwete	be all one
mzookwaa	gang up on
mzwewaakoon'gishnook	fill up an
mzwewaakoon'gisnoon	fill up an
mzweyaakdabwak	sit filling up
n'endaan	feel satisfied that
n'gaabaawdoon	dissolve sth in
n'gaabaawe	melt in water
n'gaabaawnaa	dissolve sth an
n'gaabde	come to stop
n'gaabdoon	stop sth thats
n'gaabjige	rein in horses
n'gaabnaa	stop smb from
n'gaabza	come to a
n'gaakiisjige	dig in ones
n'gaakmii	resist resist being
n'gaan'ge	flag down a
n'gaanmawaa	flag down smb
n'gaapoono	pick berries eating
n'gaasdoon	stop sth flying
n'gaashmaa	stop smb as
n'gadaan	leave sth behind
n'gadendaan	know sth well
n'gadendam	be accustomed to
n'gadenjge	be familiar with
n'gadenmaa	know smb well
n'gadganaamaa	be good at
n'gadganaandaan	be good at
n'gadganaanjge	be good at
n'gadzi	be accustomed to
n'gaj'aa	be good at
n'gaj'idza	make oneself accustomed
n'gajbidoon	be good at
n'gajbinaa	be good at
n'gajbiza	miss the bus
n'gaji-yaa	adjust acclimate be
n'gajtoon	be good at
n'gam'aa	make smb sing
n'gama	sing
n'gamtawaa	sing for smb
n'gamwin	song
n'gamwinmazna'gan	songbook
n'ganaa	leave smb behind
n'gazhwe	lead in a
n'gidaabkwe	count money
n'gidaan	count sth 
n'gidaaso	count  2
n'gide	melt
n'gidmaage	count things for
n'giigdin	be frosty be
n'gika	easily without warning
n'gikoknowe	be dressed flimsily
n'gikwinaagot	look flimsy
n'gikwinaagzi	look flimsy
n'gishkaa	shake tremble
n'giza	melt
n'gizaan	melt sth
n'gizwaa	melt sth an
n'go'aan	bury sth
n'go'gaade	be buried
n'go'gaaza	be buried
n'gokaan	cemetery graveyard
ngonaagot	disappear vanish
ngonaagzi	disappear vanish
n'goobaawdoon	dilute sth wet
n'goobaawnaa	wet sth an
n'gowaa	bury smb
n'gwa'aan	bury sth
n'gwa'gaade	be buried
n'gwa'gaazo	be buried
ngwaabmaa	watch sth an
ngwaabminaagot	disappear from view
ngwaabminaagzi	disappear from view
ngwaabndaan	watch sth disappear
n'gwaadaan	snare sth
n'gwaagne	be buried by
n'gwaagne	be buried by
n'gwaagneyaashi	be buried by
n'gwaagneyaasin	be buried by
n'gwaan'kot	be cloudy cloud
n'gwaanaa	snare smb
n'gwaanza	be snared get
n'gwawaa	bury smb
n'ishin	adjust oneself in
n'kaabaawdoon	dilute sth wet
n'kaabaawnaa	dilute sth an
n'kawe-	do something first
n'kawebdoon	stop and pick
n'kawebnaa	stop and pick
n'kawenaa	pick smb up
n'kawenaan	pick sth up
n'kewe	go out of
n'kewebde	drive out of
n'kewebza	drive out of
n'kewenaa	pick smb up
n'kewenaan	pick sth up
n'kewenmawaa	stop and pick
n'kwe'doon	come to sth
n'kwe'naa	come to smbs
n'kwebdoon	catch sth flying
n'kwebiige	write back reply
n'kwebjige	be a midwife
n'kwebnaa	catch sth an
n'kwebtoo	run to a
n'kwedaabaadaan	drag sth to
n'kwedaabaanaa	drag sth an
n'kwegnaamaa	give smb a
n'kwegnaandaan	hit sth flying
n'kwejiimawaa	knock something back
n'kwema	join another road
n'kwenmawaa	give smb a
n'kwenwebi	rest for a
n'kweshkaan	meet sth
n'kweshkwaa	meet smb
n'kwetaan	answer sth respond
n'kwetgweyaa	the rivers meet
n'kwetwaa	answer smb respond
n'kwewdoon	carry sth to
n'kwewebshkaan	knock sth back
n'kwewebshkawaa	knock smb back
n'kwewnaa	carry sth an
n'kwewse	come to a
n'kweyaakndibeshin	knock ones head
n'kweyaakshin	run headon into
n'kweyaakshkawaa	run headon into
n'kweyaaksin	smack into something
na	Sh Listen
na	particle marking yesno
na'aa	what whatshername whatshisname
na'aangbi	stay with ones
na'aangshiimaa	have smb as
na'aangshiimi	have a soninlaw
na'ii	what whatchamacallit
naa	emphatic  2
naa	say something to
naa'aa	fix sth an
naa'chigaade	be fixed be
naa'chigaaza	be fixed be
naa'ii	fix oneself up
naa'shimaa	put sth an
naa'sidoon	put sth in
naa'taapnaan	tie sth in
naa'tamawaa	fix something for
naa'tawaa	fix something for
naa'toon	fix sth repair
naab'aa	face smb in
naabaaksidoon	attach sth
Naaban-giizis	February Crustonthesnow moon
naabdam	have a certain
naabdat	be put to
naabdendam	derive a certain
naabdin	be crusty of
naabdizi	be put to
naabdoo'aan	lace sth tie
naabdoochgaans	shoelace
naabdoochgan	shoelace
naabdooge	tie shoelaces 
naabdoosknegeyaate	be romantic of
naabdoosknewaa	be arm in
naabdoowaa	string sth an
naabese	rooster
naabesenh	rooster male bird
naabesmosh	male dog
naabewse	strut like a
naabewzi	be a certain
naabgwe'aa	catch smb by
naabgwepnaa	rope smb around
naabgwewaa	catch smb around
naabi	look in a
naabii	be strung in
naabii	be strung in
naabiignaa	string sth an
naabiignaan	string sth together
naabiingwaagan	bridle
naabiisdoon	arrange sth in
naabiishmaa	arrange sth an
naabiisin	lie in a
naabji'aa	use sth an
naabjichgan	tool
naabjitoon	use sth in
naabkaadaan	bind sth securely
naabkaan	wear sth around
naabkaanaa	bind sth an
naabkawaa	wear sth an
naabkawaagan	necklace  2
naabkwaadaan	thread the eye
naabkwaan	sailboat ship
naabkwaanaa	put something around
naabkwaaniigin	canvas
naabkwaanshiin-nini	sailor
naabkwewaagan	necklace
naabmaa	see sth an
naabmewzi	fare a certain
naabminaagot	appear a certain
naabminaagzi	appear a certain
naabna	not likely used
naabndaan	see sth in
naabndam	have a certain
naabndamwin	dream a type
Naabni-giizis	February Crustonthesnow moon
naabning'o	use crutches
naabning'on	use something as
naabningwaagan	crutch
naabningwaanaa	hold on to
naabse	look somewhere quickly
naabshebzo	wear earrings
naabshebzowin	earring
naabshin	cling to something
naabshkaage	sit in for
naabshkawaa	sit in for
naabsidoon	hook sth over
naabsin	cling to something
naach'aa	lose sth an
naachtoon	lose sth
naadaabaawe	go get something
naadaabkin'ge	collect payment
naadaabkinaa	collect payment for
naadaabkinaan	collect payment for
naadaabkinmawaa	collect payment for
naadaabkwe	go get ones
naadaan	take after sth
naadaasa	go get stuff
naadgozi	act boisterous
naadin	go get sth
naadmaage	help help out
naadmaagewin	help aid
naadmawaa	help smb 
naadoobii	go get water
naadsabii	go get ones
naadsoonaagne	go get animals
naadwaa	go get something
Naadwe	Iroquois  2
Naadwenaang	Six Nations reserve
Naadwesi	Iroquois  2
naadwesi	a species of
naadweyaanak	
naadzhoonyaawe	go get ones
naadzi	live in a
naadzin'amwaa	seek payment from
naadzin'ige	seek payment collect
naag'adoon	follow sth of
naag'ajge	follow a trail
naag'anaa	follow smbs trail
naag'azhwe	follow
naagaa'aa	delay smb hold
naagaans	cup drinking glass
naagaanzit	general manager head
naagaanzitaaget	baseball owner general
naagach	later
naagan	bowl dish plate
naagdawaabmaa	follow along with
naagdawaabndaan	follow sth with
naagdawendaagzi	be looked after
naagdawendaan	look after sth
naagdawendmawaa	look after something
naagdawendmoonaa	have smb take
naagdawenmaa	look after smb
naagdendam	meditate
naagdoon	follow sth
naagdoonmaakwii	hang on to
naagdotwaa	copy what smb
naage'ii	some distance away
naagewzi	take after somebody
naagminaan	mix a drink
naagmisjigan	homebrew moonshine
naagmisjige	brew moonshine make
naagne	go through the
naagnens	cup drinking glass
naagot	appear be visible
naagshi	be evening be
naagshi-jiibaakwe	cook supper cook
naagshi-miijin	eat sth for
naagshi-mnazaan	cook sth for
naagshi-mnazwaa	cook sth an
naagshi-wiisni	eat supper have
naagzawaabmaa	follow along with
naagzawaabndaan	follow sth with
naagzhigan	splint divider
naagzhige	scrape divider
naagzhwaa	shave sth an
naagzi	appear be visible
naagzokwe'aan	follow the tracks
naagzokwewaa	follow smbs tracks
naagzotaan	follow sth of
naagzotwaa	follow smbs words
naajdaabaadaan	go get sth
naajdaabaanaa	go get smb
naajdaabiichge	go get something
naajgaade	be picked up
naajgaaza	be picked up
naajmigzi	be talked about
naajmiijme	go get food
naajmo	give a certain
naajmotwaa	give smb a
naajnewgo	go to buy
naajnise	go get firewood
naajtaasa	lose something of
naakaans	birchbark handicraft
naakan	mat
naakde	burn in a
naakma'aa	build the frame
naakmachgan	frame of a
naakmatoon	build the frame
naaknaa	elect smb to
naaknaa	resist smb struggle
naaknaan	resist sth struggle
naaknashk	bulrush
naaknige	do things in
naakniigin	carpet linoleum
naakoon'gishin	lie in a
naakoon'gishmaa	position sth an
naakshkoode	be bent a
naakshkooza	be bent a
naakwii	defend oneself fight
naakza	burn in a
naakzaan	burn sth in
naakzwaa	burn sth an
naamaabik	under the rock
naamaatgookeshiins	house wren
naamaatik	under a tree
naamaazhbik	under the rocks
naambiing	underwater
naamdabi	sit a while
naamendaan	consider sth to
naamenmaa	consider smb to
naami-	under
naamkamgokaade	have a basement
naamkamik	underground under the
naammaa	accuse smb of
naammendaagzi	be considered guilty
naamnagaakzit	on the bottom
naamsagkaade	have a basement
naamsagong	downstairs in the
naamyi'ii	at the bottom
naamyi'iing	at the bottom
naan'gidoon	talk on in
naan'godnong	occasionally sometimes
naan'gon	five days for
naan'gozwak	lie buried
naan'itaa	by lucky coincidence
naanaa	Be careful general
naanaa	go get smb
naanaadwiy'iing	on either side
naanaagdawaabmaa	look after sth
naanaagdawaabndaan	look after sth
naanaagdawendam	deliberate meditate reflect
naanaagzotaage	be obedient
naanaash	almost
naanaawgaakgan	in the middle
naanaawgaam	right in the
naanaawgatik	in the middle
naanaawgwiyiing	in the middle
naanaawmiikan	in the middle
naanaawsak	in the middle
naanaawyi'iing	right in the
naanaazhaan'kwenaa	stroke smbs hair
naanan	five
naanbaanwii	yawn
naanbaaywe	yawn
naanben	have to by
naanbena	of all the
naande	be a certain
naandwi'aa	cure smb heal
naandwi'gawaa	doctor somebody for
naandwi'win	doctoring
naandwitoon	cure sth of
naangan	be light in
naangendam	feel carefree
naangim	until
naangzi	be light in
naanidaa	by lucky coincidence
naaniibwaakjiime	paddle standing up
naaniibwi	stand stand up
naaniibwi'aa	make smb stand
naaniimnaa	dangle sth an
naaniimnaan	dangle sth
naaniimnamwaa	dangle something in
naaniisiiggoode	hang in tatters
naaniisiigziinh	glove
naaniizhoodbiwak	sit side by
naanimye	a little while
naanin	five
naaning	five times
naankibdoon	pull sth out
naankibjige	pull things out
naankibnaa	pull sth an
naanmidna	fifty
naanninoon	be five in
naanniwak	be five in
naano-	five
naano-	five
Naano-giizhgat	be Friday
Naanoo-giizhgat	Friday
naanoobii'gan	ive in cards
naanooj'aa	pursue smb
naanoojtoon	pursue sth
naanookgwiinde	soak to soften
naanookgwiinjdoon	leave sth in
naanookgwiinjin	soak to soften
naanookgwiinjmaa	leave sth an
naanoondaagzi	yell and yell
naanooshkeshiinh	hummingbird
naanskonenjge	shine a light
naanwaabiik	five rows five
naanwaabik	five dollars
naanwaak	five hundred
naanwaatik	five bottles five
naanwek	five playing cards
naanza	be a certain
naanzhe	shine in a
naanzhe	shine in a
naanzhen'ge	shine a light
naanzhenaan	shine sth in
naapaane	flour
naapaane'aa	flour sth an
naapnadoon	spend sth in
naapne	ail in a
naasaabkon'ye	wear the same
naasaabshkaan	fill sth of
naasaabshkamii	be a chip
naasaap	the same in
naasaawkamiise	twist ones foot
naasanaa	I give up
naash	just not get
naaskaan	approach sth go
naaskawaa	approach smb go
naasmabi	sit facing in
naasmii	come facing a
naasmisag	wall
naatesdoon	shine a light
naateshmaa	shine a light
naaw'am	sink into water
naawdepwaa	deprive smb of
naawdoon	haul sth to
naawgaam	in the middle
naawgatik	in the middle
naawigtigaan	in the middle
naawij	on the open
naawinj	in the middle
naawkanaa	leave smb behind
naawkii	be out of
naawkoobii	be only partly
naawkoobii	be only partly
naawkooshkne	be only partly
naawkooshkne	be only partly
naawkwe	be noon
naawkwe-jiibaakwe	cook lunch cook
naawkwe-miijin	eat sth for
naawkwe-wiisni	eat lunch
naawkwechge	take a lunch
naawkweyaagmiingwe	have ones eyes
naawnaa	haul sth an
naawnga'aan	make sth of
naawngawaa	make sth an
naawnidwak	head off to
naawyi'ii	in the middle
naawyi'iing	in the middle
naazhaabiig'aan	rub on sth
naazhaabiig'igan	fiddle violin
naazhaabiig'ige	play the fiddle
naazhaabiigwaa	rub on sth
naazhaagnese	sink into the
naazhaaknaan	roll sth down
naazhaan'kwenaa	stroke smbs hair
naazhaawganenaa	rub smbs back
naazhgaadenaa	feel up smbs
naazhgatgwenaa	stroke smbs forehead
naazhgidgwenaa	stroke smbs knee
naazhginde	fall in price
naazhginza	fall in price
naazhgwewenaa	stroke smbs neck
naazhjiinaa	feel smb up
naazhkwenaa	lower smbs head
naazhkweshmaa	lay smbs head
naazhnaa	lower smb
naazhnaan	lower sth
naazhse	fall flat sink
naazhse	fall flat sink
naazkaan	approach sth go
naazkawaa	approach smb go
nabi	sit oneself down
nadnaa	knead sth an
nadnaan	knead sth knead
nadnige	knead
nagaataa	stop hold back
nagek	bark of a
nagek	bark a piece
nagekgamik	bark house
nagish	blood sausage
nagmaa	charge a certain
nagmotwaa	sing and sing
nagnaamaa	hit sth an
nagnaandaan	hit sth in
nagnaandmawaa	hit something to
nagndaan	charge a certain
nagndamwaa	charge smb a
nagnde	be a certain
nagnjige	hold nominations for
nagoode	fall in a
nagoojin	fall in a
nagsha	Look
{n}nagway	sleeve
{n}nagwenh	sleeve
nagnza	be a certain
nakaajgan	craft material
nakaazan	use something
nakaazwin	implement tool
nakaazwin'gamik	toolshed
nakdekshimaa	set sth an
nakdeksidoon	set sth a
nakdeksin	stand a certain
nakdeshin	be placed a
nakdesin	be placed a
nakdeyaa	be a certain
nakdezi	be a certain
nake	in a certain
nakeyaa	in a certain
nakii	work at a
nakii'aa	get smb to
nakiimgat	work ie function
nakiitaan	work at sth
nakiitwaa	work for smb
nakiiwin	work  
nakmaan	suspender
nakmigat	be news go
nakshimaa	arrange sth an
nakshin	be arranged standing
naksidoon	arrange sth in
naksin	be arranged standing
nakweyiing	at the tip
nakzaawe	do something bad
nakzekwe	get dinner on
nakzhiwe	paddle in a
nam'aa	go to church
nam'aade	go a certain
nam'aakaaza	pretend to be
nam'aanzo	sing a certain
nam'e-giizhgak	in a certain
Nam'e-giizhgat	Sunday
Nam'e-giizhgat	be Sunday
nam'e-kwe	nun sister in
nam'e-mzin'igan	prayer book
nam'e-n'gamwin	hymn
nam'e-waaskonenjgaans	votive candle
nam'ekaaza	pretend to be
nam'emnak	prayer beads rosary
nam'eskaan	altar
nam'eske	celebrate mass from
nam'etaan	bless sth consecrate
nam'etwaa	bless smb consecrate
nam'ew-giizhgat	week
nam'ewaaboo	holy water
Nam'ewaatgoong	Cross Village Michigan
nam'ewgamik	church
nam'ewin	prayer
nam'ewnini	brother in religious
namaa	bite smb in
namat	go to a
namkawaa	greet smb wave
nammaa	be aware of
namndaan	be aware of
namnji'o	feel a certain
namnjige	be aware of
nan'kii	do something do
nanaa	form sth an
nanaan	form sth
nanda	he it she
nanda	these they
nandaan	bite sth in
nandwagaanaa	interrogate smb question
nang	star
nangbiza	shake shiver tremble
nangdaan	charge a certain
nangji	shiver from the
nangna	Oh in sudden
nango	today  2
nangoons	star
nangoonskaa	be starry be
nangshkaa	be shaky shake
nangshkaa	be shaky shake
nangshkaas'aa	make sth an
nangshkaastoon	make sth shake
nangwebnaa	shake sth an
nangwebnaan	shake sth
nanjge	eat certain things
napdoon	tie sth in
napjige	tie things in
napnaa	tie sth an
napza	dress in a
nashknadoon	load sth eg
nashkzi	sound a certain
nashpgaabwi	stand a certain
nataadwak	play a certain
nataage	gamble in a
naw'o	choke on a
nawaa	look like smb
nawaate	reflect in the
nawaatwe	have ones lights
nawach	various
nawebii	drink to forget
nawemaa	be related to
nawendaagan	relative
nawendwak	be related to
naweshki	be prone to
nawezi	change ones mind
nawgiizhik	in midair
nazekwe	cook a certain
nbaa	sleep
{n}baabaa	my dad
{n}baabaam	my dad
nbaadbi	adopt an indecent
nbaadshin	adopt an indecent
nbaagan	bed
nbaagnaatik	bed rail bed
nbaagni-mnidoons	stinkbug bedbug
nbaagniigin	bedsheet bedspread
nbaajgaabwi	stand indecently
nbaajtaa	be in an
nbaakaaza	pretend to be
nbaanaashkawaa	chase smb to
nbaanaazhkawaa	chase smb to
nbaaswi	instruct
nbag'aan	flatten sth with
nbagaa	be flat
nbagaabiigat	be flat of
nbagaabiigzi	be flat of
nbagaabik	shovel flat piece
nbagash	cutweed a blade
nbagbidoon	flatten sth with
nbagbinaa	flatten sth an
nbagga'gan	railroad tie
nbaggamik	house with a
nbagganaamaa	pound sth an
nbagganaandaan	pound sth flat
nbagjaane	have a flat
nbagjii'aan	flatten sth with
nbagjiide	turn out flat
nbagjiignaamaa	pound sth an
nbagjiignaandaan	pound sth flat
nbagjiisdaawe	get a flat
nbagjiishin	go flat of
nbagjiishkaan	flatten sth with
nbagjiishkoode	be flattened by
nbagjiishkoodoon	cause sth to
nbagjiishkoonaa	cause sth an
nbagjiishkooza	be flattened by
nbagjiishkwaa	flatten sth an
nbagjiiwaa	flatten sth an
nbagjiiza	turn out flat
nbagmin'gizi	be flat on
nbagnaa	cornbread
nbagndibe	have a flat
nbagsak	plank a sheet
nbagshimaa	make sth an
nbagshkaan	flatten sth with
nbagshkawaa	flatten sth an
nbagshkoode	be flattened by
nbagshkoodoon	cause sth to
nbagshkoonaa	cause sth an
nbagshkooza	be flattened by
nbagsidoon	make sth flat
nbagwaa	flatten sth an
nbagzi	be flat
nbagzideshin	be flatfooted 
nbagzidesin	get a flat
nbashaap'aa	make fun of
nbashaaptoon	make fun of
{n}bazgim	my boyfriend my
{n}bazgim	my crosscousin of
nbe'aa	put smb to
nbe'aawso	put the children
nbejiibnaa	lull smb to
nbejiishkne	fall asleep from
nbekaaza	pretend to be
nbenaashkaage	chase people to
nbendaage	sleep overnight at
nbendwaa	sleep overnight at
nbeshki	be a sleepyhead
nbeshkne	fall asleep from
nbewgamik	hotel  2
nbi	water
nbi-naadi	go get water
nbiikaa	be watery of
{n}biipiizde	my lung
nbiish	water an amount
nbiish-waawaasgone	species of water
nbiishwaaboo	liquid
nbiishwan	be watery
nbiiwaagnagaa	be moist of
nbiiwaakot	be drenched be
nbiiwaakzi	be drenched be
nbiiwegat	be wet of
nbiiwegnaan	moisten sth of
nbiiwegzi	be wet of
nbiiwendaagot	be wet weather
{n}biiweziinmak	my brood my
nbiiwi	be dewy
nbiiwkamgaa	be wet of
nbiiwshkaa	be wet of
nbiiwzhkiinzhgwe	be tearyeyed have
{n}bikon	my back
{n}bikwan	my back
nbis	lake
nbo	die be dead
nbogkwese	droop of plants
{n}bokgonaagan	the bump on
nboobiike	make soup
nboobiish	homebrew moonshine
nboodewat	be deserted be
nboodewbii	be depressing from
nboodewendaagzi	seem depressing seem
nboodewendaagot	seem desolate seem
nboodewendam	be depressed be
nboodewewe	sound mournful
nboodewewechge	play mournful music
nboodewi-	forlorn lonely
nboodewi-yaa	act depressed act
nboodewkanaa	make smb lonely
nboodewkonaa	be lonesome for
nboodewmaaza	sing mournfully sing
nboodewnaagot	look deserted look
nboodewnaagzi	look depressed look
nboodewtaan	find sth mournful
nboodewtawaa	find smb mournful
nboodewzi	be depressed be
nbookaaza	play dead
nboomgat	die be dead
nboonkwegaabwi	stand with head
nboonkwese	droop flag bow
nboop	soup broth
nbwaach'aa	visit smb
nbwaach'idwak	visit each other
nbwaachwe	visit
nbwaakaa	be learned be
nbwaakaa'aa	make smb wise
nbwaakaawnini	sage wise man
{n}bwaam	thigh
nbwekse	collapse
nbwekse	collapse
nbwiiwse	have a stroke
nchiiw'aa	reprimand smb scold
nchiiwat	be stormy weather
nchiiwenmandwaa	greet smb effusively
nchiiwmaa	insult smb
nchiiwmaagnese	have bad breath
nchiiwmaasa	smell bad of
nchiiwmaate	smell bad of
nchiiwnaagot	be ugly look
nchiiwnaagzi	be ugly look
nchiiwte	lie in disorder
nchiiwtoo	bawl people out
nchiiwzi	be feisty create
nchiiyaan'gidoon	talk tough talk
nchiiyendiza	be feisty think
nchiiyenmandwaa	greet smb exuberantly
nda'aan	draw sth from
nda'aawngwaan	gravel pit
nda'baan	water hole well
nda'bii	draw water from
{nd}a'iim	my possession
{nd}a'iim	my possession
{nd}a'iimak	my belongings my
{nd}a'iiman	my belongings my
nda-	look to do
ndabezhgoognzhiiwe	look for ones
nda-bmaaj'aa	provide food for
nda-bzhikiiwe	look for ones
nda-kweke	look for women
nda-mkwendaan	try to remember
nda-mkwenmaa	try to remember
nda-niniike	look for men
nda-piniiwe	look for potatoes
nda-waabmaa	look for smb
nda-waabndaan	look for sth
nda-waabndamwaa	look for something
nda-wiidgemaagni	look for a
nda-zhichge	do ones utmost
ndaa'aagma'aan	stir sth with
ndaa'aagmawaa	stir sth an
ndaa'aagminaa	stir sth an
ndaa'aagminaan	stir sth with
ndaa'aagmisdoon	stir sth by
ndaa'ganaamaa	whip sth an
ndaa'ganaandaan	whip sth to
ndaabaawe	arrive all wet
ndaabiignige	extend a cord
ndaabkaadaan	tie sth from
ndaabkaanaa	tie sth an
ndaabke	hitch up from
ndaaboode	float from a
ndaabooza	float from a
ndaabsa	have smoke coming
ndaabte	be smoke coming
ndaadzi	be born
ndaajii'aan	stir sth of
ndaajiiwaa	stir sth an
ndaakwii	shoot from a
{n}daamkan	my chin my
{n}daan	my daughter
{nd}aan'kobjigan	my great grandchild
{nd}aan'koobdenh	my great grandchild
{n}daangwenh	my sisterinlaw
{n}daanis	my daughter
ndaanmat	blow from a
ndaapnemaa	quarrel with smb
ndaapnendiwak	quarrel with each
ndaapnewdam	quarrel for a
ndaashmaa	shuffle sth an
ndaashti	on this side
ndaasjige	shuffle cards
ndaawaach	just may as
ndaawdoon	haul sth from
ndaawdoon	haul sth from
ndaawnaa	haul sth an
ndaawnaa	haul sth an
ndaawngwe	get gravel from
ndabaan	water hole well
ndabgishmaa	tell smbs fortune
ndabgisjige	read tea leaves
ndabnaa	frisk smb search
ndadema	cry for a
ndagnaamaa	hit smb for
ndagnaandaan	hit sth for
ndagoode	fall from a
ndagoojdoon	let sth drop
ndagoojin	fall from a
ndagoojmaa	let sth an
ndakdaan	cut into something
ndakdamwaa	cut into something
ndaknaa	cut into something
{n}daknaagan	my godchild
ndakwe'aan	look for the
ndakwechge	look for tracks
ndakwewaa	look for smbs
ndamaa	taste sth an
ndamaabmaa	be preoccupied with
ndamaabndaan	be preoccupied with
ndamaabnjige	be preoccupied with
ndamaakmaanaa	look for lice
ndamaakme	look for lice
ndamaakmeshiinh	chimpanzee monkey
ndami-	be busy with
ndamiikaan	be busy with
ndamiikwaa	be busy with
ndamji'o	watch for signs
ndamtaa	be busy doing
ndamzi	be busy
ndanaas'aa	check smb for
ndanaashkaan	run around in
ndanaashkawaa	run around in
ndanaazhkaan	run around in
ndanaazhkawaa	run around in
ndandaan	taste sth looking
ndane'aan	look for sth
ndane'ge	look for something
ndane'mawaa	search for something
ndanewaa	look for smb
{nd}anwendaagan	generic term for
{n}datgaagon	my backbone my
ndaw'doon	walk from someplace
ndawaa	just may as
ndawaabi	look around for
ndawaabmaa	look for smb
ndawaabndaan	look for sth
ndawaach	just may as
ndawaangzhe	look for a
ndawaanzhechge	look for workers
ndawaaskonendaan	search sth out
ndawaaskonendwaa	search smb out
ndawaaskonenjge	search out things
ndawaatoo	spy
{n}dawemaa	my brother if
ndawendaagot	be needed be
ndawendaagzi	be needed be
ndawendaan	need sth want
ndawenjge	hunt
ndawenmaa	need smb to
ndawewdam	shout for a
ndawewemaa	call out for
ndawewendaan	call out for
ndawzin	try and get
{n}day	my dog
{nd}ay'aam	my animal my
{nd}azhgan	my sock
nde	boil come to
{n}de'	my heart
{n}dedem	my father my
{n}den'gom	snot
ndendi	be away temporarily
{n}dengway	my face
{n}dengwenh	my face
{n}denik	my nostril
{n}denniw	my tongue
{n}deteg	my temple ref
{n}dew	my heart
{n}diyenh	my ass my
{nd}ik	my louse
ndin'ge	buy things from
ndinaa	get sth an
ndinaan	buy sth from
{n}dindaawaa	my cofatherinlaw my
{nd}indwin	my fault
{n}diniigan	my shoulder blade
ndinmaagen	provide something
{n}dinmaangan	my shoulder
{n}dinmaangan	my shoulder
ndinmawaa	get something for
{n}dip	my scalp
{n}ndip	my head
{n}dis	my navel my
{n}diy	my ass my
ndizi	benefit gain get
ndo-	stir sth vigorously
ndobni	go on the
ndodaan	ask for sth
ndodmaage	ask for something
ndodmaagen	ask for something
ndodmawaa	ask smb for
ndokjige	try to get
ndomaa	ask smb to
ndomaakmaanaa	look for lice
ndomaakme	look for lice
ndomaamaa	sniff sth an
ndomaandaan	sniff sth try
ndomaanjge	sniff the air
ndonaas'aa	look for lice
{n}doodem	my clan my
{n}doodkosi	my kidney
{n}doodoom	my mother
ndoojiibdoon	feel around for
ndoojiibjige	feel around in
ndoojiibnaa	grope for sth
ndoojiin'ge	feel around to
ndoojiinaa	grope for smb
ndoojiinaan	grope for sth
ndookwewe	look for a
{n}doon	my mouth
{n}doondan	my heel
{n}doonkosi	my kidney
ndoonzhe	get pregnant by
ndoonzhe'aa	get smb pregnant
{n}dooskon	my elbow
{n}doozhim	my parallelnephew
{n}doozhmis	my parallelniece my
{n}doozhmiskwem	my parallelniece
ndoshe	listen for something
ndotaan	listen for sth
ndotwaa	listen for sth
ndwewemaa	call out for
nebaamaa-zhngobiins	Common juniper evergreen
nebgaanh	porridge rolled oats
nebshin	take a nap
negaach	easy gently softly
negaaj'aa	be frugal with
negaajchige	be frugal be
negaajtoon	be frugal with
negaw	sand
negbide	roll underneath something
negbiza	roll underneath something
negkanzhenaan	stick sth into
negkizhenaa	stick sth an
negmaa	swallow sth an
negmekwaan	spile
negnaa	put sth an
negnaan	put sth into
negndaan	swallow sth
negndamoonaa	make smb swallow
negoode	crawl under
negsagdiiyejin	get a splinter
negsagninjiijin	get a splinter
negsagzidejin	get a splinter
negshimaa	place sth an
negshin	be placed in
negsidoon	place sth in
negsin	be placed in
negwaabi	look out from
negwakmigaa	be sandy of
negwegnaan	tuck sth under
negweki	sand
negwiikaa	be a sandy
nekwebdoot	catcher
nen'godooshkne	be filled one
nen'godwaasooshkne	be filled six
nenaabgaan	porridge rolled oats
nenaabgaanh	porridge rolled oats
nenaannooshkne	be filled five
Nenbosh	Nenabosh also known
Nenbozhoo	Nenabosh also known
nendaagot	seem a certain
nendaagzi	seem a certain
nendaan	forget sth forget
nendaan	think about sth
nendam	think such feel
nendi	be absent for
nendmaawzi	be forgetful
nenegshe	eavesdrop
nengaach	easy gently softly
neniish	two each both
neniiwooshkne	be filled four
nenmaa	forget about smb
nenmaa	think about so
nenookaashiins	rubythroated hummingbird
nenooshkaashiins	rubythroated hummingbird
nenshike	separately
nenshikewzi	be all alone
nensi	be several groups
nensooshkne	be filled three
nepaajnikesens	mole ie the
nepaajnikesi	mole ie the
nepaazkaan	put sth on
nepaazkawaa	put sth an
nese	breathe
nesebzo	breathe fast of
nesegwaabde'gaans	pin
nesegwaabde'o	pick ones teeth
nesendaan	breathe on sth
nesendawaa	breathe on smb
nesoobgak	clover
netmising	first base
newebi	rest
neyaab'aa	put sth an
neyaabtoon	put sth back
neyaap	back return to
neyaashi	point of land
neyaashi	be a point
neyiizh	both
{n}gaagaagiim	my phlegm
{n}gaakgan	my chest
ngaasmoon	sail
ngaasmoon'gaan	tent
ngaasmoon'gamgwe	camp out in
ngaasmoon'gamik	tent
ngaasmooniigin	canvas
{n}gashi	my mother
{n}gatik	my forehead
ngidaas'aa	make smb read
{n}gidik	my knee
n'gidmawaa	count something for
ngig	otter
ngig-weyaan	otter pelt
ngigke	trap otters
{n}gin'gibeshaagan	my clitoris
{n}gitziim	my parent
{n}gnaab'igan	my eyelid
ngo-	one
ngo-aabtaa-dbik	all evening until
ngo-bboon	one whole year
ngo-bboon'gat	be one year
ngo-bkwaakninch	one fistful one
ngo-dba'gaans	one inch 
ngo-dbaabaan	one mile
ngo-dbagne	be one oclock
ngo-naawkwe	for half a
ngodaabaan	one carload
ngodaabaan'gizi	be a carload
+dba'aabaan	used with a
ngodbaabaan	one mile
ngodbik	for one night
ngodgamik	one houseful one
ngoding	once at one
ngodnaagaans	one cup one
ngodnaagan	one dishful one
ngodnik	one armspan
ngodninch	one handwidth
ngodoode	one family members
ngodoon'gat	be a boatload
ngodoon'gizi	be a boatload
ngodoopwin	one tableful
ngodoopwin'gat	be a tableful
ngodoopwin'gizi	be a tableful
ngodooshkin	one bagful
ngodooshkne	be a container
ngodooshkne	be a container
ngodsak	one barrelful
ngodwaabiik	one stringful
ngodwaachnoon	be six in
ngodwaachwak	be six in
ngodwaak	one hundred
ngodwaakwaagan	one handspan
ngodwaasbii'gan	the numeral six
ngodwaasgon	for six days
ngodwaasgon'gizi	be the sixth
ngodwaasmidna	sixty
ngodwaaso-	six
ngodwaasoobii'gan	the numeral six
Ngodwaasoo-giizhgat	Saturday
ngodwaasooshkaawak	go as six
ngodwaaswaabik	six dollars
ngodwaaswaak	six hundred
ngodwaaswek	six playing cards
ngodwaaswi	six
ngodwemkwaan	one spoonful
ngodwewaan	one pair 
ngodwewaan'gat	be one group
ngodwewaan'gizi	be one group
ngodzit	one foot 
ngoji	somewhere someplace off
ngoji	Get away from
ngojii'ge	hoe
ngokiins	one acre of
ngon	cease to exist
ngona	so it turns
{n}gookmis	my grandmother
ngwaagan	trap  2
{n}gwis	my son
{n}gzhebdoonaagan	my upper lip
{n}hoos	my father
ni	follow smb with
ni'aa	what whatshername whatshisname
ni'aa	lose sth an
ni'ii	what whatchamacallit
ni-	do something as
ni-dgoshin	arrive there get
ni-giiwe	go home
ni-maajaa	go away leave
ni-mkawi	faint lose consciousness
ni-ngo-bboon'gak	in one years
ni-ngo-bboon'gat	be one year
ni-ngo-dba'giiswaan'gak	in one hours
ni-ngo-giisagak	in one months
ni-ngo-nam'egiizhgak	in one weeks
ni-waabang	the day after
ni-wediin	those over there
ni-wediin	those over there
nide	cook a certain
nidyen'ge	make the bottom
nigaa'aa	be mean to
nigaanaagot	look poor look
nigaanaagzhishi	look pitiful
nigaanaagzi	look poor look
nigaataagzi	make pitiful sounds
nigaataan	be saddened by
nigaatwaa	be saddened by
nigaawendaagot	be poignant be
nigaawendaagzi	evoke pity be
nigaawendaan	feel sorry for
nigaawendam	feel bad about
nigaawenmaa	feel bad about
nigaazi	be in bad
nigaazo	hurt oneself
nige	portage
nigkogmaa	be a certain
nigkwaa	be a certain
nigni	be a certain
nigno	be a certain
nigokjiiyaa	be a certain
nigokjiizi	be a certain
nigokwaa	be a certain
nigwa	until
nii	I me my
nii'ge	set traps
niibaa-nam'aam	be Christmas be
niibaa-	at night
niibaabi	hold a wake
niibaadbik	during the night
niibdesdoon	place sth in
niibdeshin	be arranged in
niibdeshmaa	place sth an
niibdesin	be arranged in
niibdeyaakbiwak	sit in a
niibgwaadaan	snare sth
niibgwaanaa	snare smb
niibiish	leaf
niibiishaaboo	tea
niibiishaaboo-naagaans	tea cup
niibin	be summer
niibmin	highbush cranberry
niibna	lots many much
niibwa	lots many much
niibwi	be married get
niibwi'aa	marry smb ie
niibwitwaa	marry smb ie
{n}iidgik	my sister if
{n}iidgikoonh	my sister if
niig'aa	give birth to
niigaan	ahead in front
niigaan'gaabwi	be first in
niigaan'goojin	fall forward
niigaanaasnok	morning star
niigaanbatoo	run ahead lead
niigaanbi	sit first in
niigaanbide	drive ahead drive
niigaanbiza	drive ahead drive
niigaanendiza	think one is
niigaanii	be ahead be
niigaannaa	hold sth an
niigaannaan	hold sth in
niigaanwewdam	lead in calling
niigaanzi	be in charge
niigaanziikndaan	be in charge
niigaanziikndawaa	be in charge
niigaawendaagot	be considered dangerous
niijaani	have a child
niijaansi	have a child
{n}iiji-	my fellow soandso
{n}iijii	my friend
{n}iijkiwem	my brother
{n}iijkiwenziinh	my friend
{n}iikaan	my brother if
{n}iikaanis	my brother if
niikmo	growl
niim'aa	make smb dance
niim'andwaa	hold up an
niim'idiiwewe	make people want
niim'idiiwgamik	dance hall dance
niim'idim	there be a
niim'idwak	have a dance
niim'iwe	hold a dance
niimaakjii'aan	hold sth up
niimaakjiiwaa	hold sth an
niimbaagan	bushel  2
niimdana	forty
niimi	dance
niimkawaa	dance for smb
niimna	lots many much
niimnaa	hold sth an
niimnaan	hold sth up
niimnamwaa	bait smb hold
niimshka'gan	crest of a
niimshka'ge	have a crest
niimshka'gen	wear something as
niimwin	dance
niin	I me my
{n}iin'zis	a strand of
niinaa	well
niindaa'aa	send something to
niindaa'wen	send something
niinde'aa	send something to
{n}iindip	my brain
niinii	I me
{n}iinim	my brotherinlaw if
niinmat	be weak of
niinminaagot	look weak of
niinminaagzi	look frail look
niinmizi	be frail be
niinmiziikaaza	pretend to be
{n}iinmokaan	my brotherinlaw if
{n}iinmoshenh	my crosscousin of
niinwendam	find something poignant
niinwi	you know
niinwi	we not including
niip	elm tree
niipgane	feel enervated feel
niis'idkokii	step down take
niisaabiignaa	lower sth an
niisaabiignaan	lower sth on
niisaadendam	be sad over
niisaadkamik	How unfortunate Thats
niisaajwan	downriver downstream
niisaakbidoon	demolish sth tear
niisaakbinaa	demolish sth an
niisaaki	down the hill
niisaakiiyebde	fly down the
niisaakiiyebza	drive down the
niisaakiiyekmigaa	slope downwards of
niisaakiwebzo	slide down a
niisaaknaa	dismantle sth an
niisaaknaan	dismantle sth take
niisaakse	fall apart of
niisaakse	fall apart of
niisaakwaashi	be torn down
niisaakwaasin	be torn down
niisaandwe	climb down go
niisaandwebtoo	run downstairs
niisaandwegoojin	fall down the
niisaandwenaashkawaa	chase smb down
niisaandwewebnaa	throw sth an
niisbidmawaa	pull something down
niisbidoon	pull sth down
niisbinaa	pull sth an
niisgo-yaa	be in the
niish	two
niishtana	twenty
niisiigiigaashi	be torn by
niisiigiigaasin	be torn by
niiskaabdewaapi	laugh with teeth
niiskaadat	be stormy
niiskaangde	be cluttered be
niiskaaznaagot	look stormy look
niiskendaan	find sth annoying
niiskendam	be anxious due
niiskendmi'aa	cause smb to
niiskendmo'aa	cause smb to
niiskenjge	find things annoying
niiskenmaa	find smb annoying
niiskiingweni	make a face
niiskiingwetaa	make a face
niiskjaanetaa	wrinkle ones nose
niiskjiin'ge	have an annoying
niiskmaa	annoy smb with
niiskoodegzi	have an annoying
niiskoonzhe	have a lot
niiskozhwe	paddle downstream 
niisksewak	have a fallingout
niiskshin	be an annoyance
niisksin	be an annoyance
niisktaagzi	annoy someone with
niiskwenaa	put smbs head
niiskweshmaa	lay smbs head
niisnaa	lower sth an
niisnaan	lower sth
niisoomgo	dismount
niisse	slide to the
niisse	slide to the
niiswebnaa	drop sth an
niiswebnaan	drop sth throw
niiswebshkaan	kick sth down
niiswebshkawaa	kick sth an
niisyi'ii	below
niisyi'iing	below
{n}iitaa	my brotherinlaw if
{n}iitaawis	my cousin my
{n}iiw	my wife
niiwaabiik	four rows four
niiwaabik	four dollars
niiwaak	four hundred
niiwaatik	four bottles four
niiwek	four playing cards
niiwendam	mourn feel empty
niiwgon	for four days
niiwin	four
niiwing	four times
niiwnoon	be four in
niiwoo-	four
niiwoob'idwak	run in a
niiwoobii'gan	the numeral four
niiwoodbiwak	sit in a
niiwwak	be four in
{n}iiyaw	my body
niiygon	for four days
niizaanat	be at risk
niizaani-	dangerous
niizaani-yaa	be dangerous
niizaanzi	be at risk
Niizhgiizhgat	be Tuesday
niizhgon	for two days
niizhgon'gat	be two days
niizhgonendi	be absent for
niizhik	be two in
niizhing	twice two times
niizhkiins	two acres of
niizhna	two loaves
niizhnoon	be two in
niizhoo'gamzaan	boil sth with
niizhoo'gamzwaa	boil sth an
niizhoo-	two
niizhoo-	two
Niizhoo-giizhgat	Tuesday
niizhoo-mkak	two boxfuls two
niizhoob'idwak	run in a
niizhoobii'gan	the numeral two
niizhoodbiwak	sit in a
niizhoode	two families
niizhoodenh	twin
niizhoognzhii	have cloven hooves
niizhoonak	two boatloads
niizhooshnook	be two lying
niizhoosnoon	be two lying
niizhootooge	have two ears
niizhwaabgonii	be two growing
niizhwaabgonii	be two growing
niizhwaabiik	two rows two
niizhwaabik	two dollars
niizhwaak	two hundred
niizhwaasmidna	seventy
niizhwaasoobii'gan	the numeral seven
niizhwaaswaabik	seven dollars
niizhwaaswaak	seven hundred
niizhwaaswi	seven
niizhwaatik	two bottles two
niizhwak	be two in
niizhwegshimaa	double up sth
niizhwegshinook	lie two together
niizhwegsidoon	double up sth
niizhwegsinoon	lie two together
niizhwegzi	be two in
niizhwek	two playing cards
niizhwewaan	two pairs two
niizhwewaan'gizi	be in two
nijiimin	pea
nikaa	have something happen
nikaa	have something happen
nikdaan	cut sth in
nikde	be cut in
nike	in a certain
nikekmik	on a certain
nikey'iing	in a certain
nikeyaa	in a certain
niknaa	cut sth an
nikonye	dress in a
nikoozo	be wounded in
nikweni	hold ones head
nikweshin	lie with ones
nikweshmaa	place smbs head
nikwetaa	hold ones head
nikwetwaa	nod to smb
nikzo	be cut in
nim	dog
nimaabiigmawak	stream away of
nimaagnagii	head off through
nimaajmo	walk away talking
nimaan'gidoon	walk away talking
nimaangde	trail away in
nimaangdoon	drop sth in
nimaangnaa	drop sth an
nimaangza	trail away in
nimaanzhe	head off with
nimaawnidwak	march away parade
nimbatoo	run off
nimbide	fly off drive
nimbiza	fly off drive
nimgaashin	head off leaving
nimgamik	doghouse kennel
nimkaage	wave hand greet
nimkawaa	greet smb wave
nimkawe	head off leaving
Nimkii	Thunderer Thunder being
nimkii	thunder of Thunderers
nimkiibak	poison ivy
nimkiikaa	there be a
nimkiiwaan'kot	thundercloud
nimkobi	sit with ones
Nimkodaadim	be New Years
nimkogaa	face away have
nimkogaabwi	stand with ones
nimkonaa	turn sth an
nimkonaan	turn sth upside
nimkosdoon	place sth so
nimkoshin	lie face down
nimkoshmaa	place sth an
nimkosin	lie face down
nimkowebnaa	flip sth an
nimkowebnaan	flip sth upside
nimkowebshkaan	flip sth upside
nimkowebshkawaa	flip sth an
nimookaadzi	be a dog
nimookaajiin-miizhashk	crabgrass
nimookaajiinh	dog
nimookaajiinygamik	kennel doghouse
nimoons	puppy
nimosh	dog
nimse	walk away walk
nimshens	puppy
nimshigmik	kennel doghouse
nimshiiwgamik	doghouse kennel
nimwewebde	drive off making
nimwewebtoo	run off making
nimwewebza	drive off making
nimwewetoo	head off making
nin'ge	gesture give signs
nina	here and there
ninaa	hand sth an
ninaan	hand sth in
ninaatgwaaboo	maple sap
ninaatik	sugar maple tree
ningbinwenh	screech owl
ningbizo	shake shiver tremble
ningji	shiver from the
ningshkaa	be shaky shake
nini	man
ninii-miiknoot	mens pants mens
niniiwaapne	be boycrazy
niniiwi	be a man
ninmawaa	hand something to
ninshib	black duck 
ninwanzh	milkweed
ninwinshk	milkweed
nisaadzi	be sober
nise	be mistaken in
nishaa	for nothing for
nishe	hear a certain
nishgo	despite the fact
nishi	be effective be
nishin	be effective be
nishke	Look directing attention
nishkwe'aa	distract smb hinder
nishkwemaa	distract smb by
nishkwetaa	interrupt
nishkwewendam	be mentally disturbed
nishnaabe	human being
Nishnaabe	North American Aboriginal
Nishnaabe-kwe	North American Aboriginal
nishnaabebii'ge	write in Nishnaabemwin
Nishnaabema	speak Nishnaabemwin speak
Nishnaabemtawaa	speak Indian to
Nishnaabemwin	Indian language
Nishnaabewi	be a North
nishnaabewnikaadaan	call sth by
nishnaabewnikaanaa	call smb by
nit	fish spear
nitaa-wnendam	be forgetful
nitaage	hear people say
nitaagot	sound a certain
nitaagzi	be heard saying
nitaan	hear sth in
nitam	hear something in
nitoon	lose sth
nitwaa	hear smb in
niw	he it she
niw	those
niwedi	those over there
niwedi	those over there
niwi	he it she
niwi	those
niwin	he it she
niwin	those
nizekwe	cook in a
nizhge	cut out pieces
nizo	cook a certain
{n}jaansh	my nose
{n}jaash	my nose
nji	because of on
nji'aa	fight with smb
nji'we	fight for a
nji'wen	fight over something
nji-	at a certain
nji-dagoode	fall from a
nji-dagoojin	fall from a
njibaa	be from a
njibde	drive from a
njibdoon	pull sth from
njibnaa	pull sth an
njibza	come in the
{n}jichaag	my soul
njida	deliberately on purpose
njigaa	leak well up
njigaa	well up leak
njigaabwi	stand in a
njigaabwitwaa	side with smb
{n}jiichiigom	my wart
{n}jiingon	my lap the
{n}jiit	my anus
njiiyenh	next in order
njijiitam	set out from
njijwan	flow from a
njikaamgat	come from a
njikaamgat	be dirty
njiknaa	leave smb behind
njine	die from something
njinnaa	fight with smb
njinnidwak	fight with each
njinse	cut firewood from
njinza	fight over a
njinzan	fight for something
njinzhiwe	fight for a
njinzhiwen	fight over something
njishin	lie on a
njiweb'ogo	float along on
n'ka	Canada goose
{n}kaakan	my chest
{n'}kaat	my leg
{n'}kakon	my shin
{n}keweziinyim	my husband my
{n'}kidin	my vulva
{n'}kidnaash	my vulva
nkwebii'mawaa	answer smbs letter
{n'}kwegan	my neck
nkwetam	answer respond
nmaanwaang	on my cheek
nmadbi	sit sit down
nmadbi'aa	seat smb make
nmadbinaashkwaa	send smb to
nmadbingwaam	fall asleep while
nmadbis'aa	shove smb into
nmadbise	fall to a
nmakndibe	anoint ones head
nmakwii	anoint ones head
{n}mamaam	my mother
{n}mamaanh	my mom my
nmanj	however it may
{n}mashkmat	my scrotum
nme	sturgeon
nme'aa	see signs of
nme'aawzi	be host
nme'aawziikndaan	oversee sth as
nmebin	carp sucker bony
Nmebin-giizis	January Sucker moon
nmebnenh	sucker bony bottomfeeding
Nmebni-giizis	January Sucker moon
nmebnikenying	sucker fishing camp
nmegos	brown trout trout
nmegshens	rainbow trout
nmepin	coltsfoot plant with
nmetoo	leave signs of
nmewshkoons	pennyroyal aromatic plant
{n}midmooyem	my wife lit
{n}minik	my testicle
{n}misenh	my older sister
{n}mishoomenh	my parallel uncle
{n}mishoomis	my grandfather 
{n}moodens	my pocket
{n}na'aangish	my soninlaw
{n}na'aangnikwe	my daughterinlaw
{n}na'aangshim	my soninlaw
nnaa'aa	fix sth an
nnaa'chigaadaan	fix sth straighten
nnaa'chigaade	be fixed be
nnaa'chigaanaa	fix smb straighten
nnaa'chigaaza	be fixed be
nnaa'ii	fix oneself up
nnaa'kodaan	cut sth again
nnaa'konaa	cut sth an
nnaa'shimaa	put sth an
nnaa'sidoon	put sth in
nnaa'taapnaan	tie sth in
nnaa'tamwaa	fix something for
nnaa'toon	fix sth repair
{n}naabem	my husband
nnaakmaa	talk back to
nnaaknaa	resist smb struggle
nnaaknaan	resist sth struggle
nnaakndam	talk back defiantly
nnaakwebdaadwak	play catch
nnaakwii	defend oneself fight
nnaamdabi	sit a while
{n}naan	the calf of
nnaandwi'aa	cure smb heal
nnaandwi'gawaa	doctor somebody for
nnaandwi'o	be cured of
nnaandwitoon	cure sth of
nnaantkozi	be capricious be
nnaapgaandgoojin	fall with ones
nnaapgaanjbii	be a sloppy
nnaasa	from time to
nnaash	just not get
nnaash	exp of impatience
nnaawgozhechge	make the bed
nnaawpindiza	straighten out the
nnaawse	get resolved get
nnaawzhiyaa	feel better regain
nnabnizi	make no gains
{n}nag'ay	my skin
{n}nagaakninj	the palm of
{n}nagaakzit	the sole of
{n}nagask	my palate
{n}nagish	my intestine
nnagmatwaa	sing and sing
nnandwagaanaa	interrogate smb question
nnangaakji	shiver from the
nnangaakne	sparkle
nnangaakne	sparkle
nnangaaknese	flicker
nnangaaknese	flicker
nnangbide	shake shiver tremble
nnangbiza	shake shiver tremble
nnangji	shiver from the
nnangshkaa	be shaky shake
nnangshkaa	be shaky shake
nnangshkaas'aa	make sth an
nnangshkaastoon	make sth shake
nnangshkizi	have a shaky
nnangwebnaa	shake sth an
nnangwebnaan	shake sth
{n}nashkdii	my tail of
{n}nashkdiins	my tail of
{n}nashkit	my tail of
{n}nendip	my brain
{n}nibiim	my soft spot
{n}niig'ik	my parent
{n}niijaanis	my child my
{n}niijkadoonh	my buddy
{n}niijkewenh	my friend
{n}niijkiwem	my brother
{n}niijkiwis	my friend
{n}niikaanis	my brother if
{n}niishk	my gland
{n}niishkok	my tonsils
nniiwendam	mourn feel empty
nniizaan'gaabwi	be in a
nniizaanaabminaagot	look risky look
nniizaanaabminaagzi	look risky look
nniizaanaaddaan	foretell danger for
nniizaanaajma	foretell danger foretell
nniizaanaajmaa	foretell danger for
nniizaandabi	sit in a
nniizaanendaagot	be dangerous seem
nniizaanendaagzi	be dangerous seem
nniizaannaagot	look dangerous look
nniizaannaagzi	look dangerous look
nniizaanshimaa	arrange sth an
nniizaanshin	be resting in
nniizaansidoon	arrange sth precariously
nniizaansin	be resting in
{n}nik	my arm
{n}ninch	my hand
nningbizo	shake shiver tremble
nningji	shiver from the
{n}ningnis	my crossnephew my
{n}ningon	my soninlaw
nningshkaa	be shaky shake
{n}ningwii'gan	my wing
{n}ninjgaans	my fin
{n}ninjgaans	my fin
{n}ninjiins	my finger
{n}nishiw	my penis
{n}noogan	the side of
{n}nookmis	my grandmother
{n}nooshenh	my parallel aunt
{n}noozwaagan	my namesake
{n}now	my cheek
{n}noway	my cheek
nokaazan	use something
nokii	work at a
nokii'aa	get smb to
nokiimgat	work ie function
nokiitaan	work at sth
nokiitmawaa	get something to
nokiitoon	get sth to
noknowe	dress in a
nonda	he it she
nonda	he it she
nongo	today  2
noodaagan	messenger
noodaan	hire sth
noode	crawl in a
noodin	wind
noodin	be windy
noodmawaa	hire something for
noogbide	come to a
noogbiza	come to a
nooggaabwi	come to a
noogse	stop walking 
noogshkaa	come to a
noogshkaa	come to a
nooch	various
nooj'aa	tease smb
noojgamgwe	visit around at
noojii	snack
noojmo	heal from an
noojmo'aa	cure smb heal
noojmotmawaa	cure somebody for
nookaa	be soft
nookaagnagaa	be soft of
nookbidoon	soften sth with
nookbinaa	soften sth an
nookde	be tender from
nookgwiinjdoon	soak sth to
nookgwiinjmaa	soak sth an
nookii	ask for work
nookiigat	be soft of
nookiigzi	be soft of
nookjiishin	lie on something
nookjiiyaa	be soft of
nookjiizi	be soft of
nookkweshin	lie with ones
nookming	inland in the
{n}ookmis	my grandmother
nooknaagot	look soft
nooknaagzi	look soft
nooktagat	be soft of
nookwegat	be soft of
nookwegzi	be soft of
nookwewebde	make little noise
nookwewebza	make little noise
nookza	be tender from
nookzi	be soft
noomya	just a little
noon'aa	breastfeed smb nurse
noon'kenh	crock earthenware jar
noonaa	ask smb to
noonaagnaaboo	milk
noonaawso	breastfeed ones child
noondaa-dbik	partway through the
noondaa-naagshik	partway through the
noondaagzi	call out shout
noondaan	hear sth
noondaash	less than under
noondam	hear about something
noonde-	before a goal
noondese	be short of
noondese	be short in
noondesen	be short of
noondwaa	hear smb
noongbide	stop while running
noongbiza	stop while driving
noongdaabiichge	bring ones horse
noongkwegoojin	have ones head
noongkweni	cast ones head
noongkwetaa	cast ones head
noongo	this morning of
noongom	this morning of
nooni	nurse of babies
noopmidzhinniinh	country bumpkin a
noopming	in the bush
noopnadaan	follow sth
noopnakii	follow somebody going
noopnanaa	follow along behind
noopo	take a lunch
noopon	take something as
noopwaan'kaadaan	make a lunch
noopwaan'kaanaa	make a lunch
noopwaan'kawaa	make a lunch
noopwaan'ke	make a lunch
noopwaan'kodaadzo	make a lunch
{n}oos	my father
noosh-naagan	platter oval plate
{n}ooshenh	my grandchild
nooshkaajgan	fanning mill
nooskaan	outgrow sth of
nooskawaa	outgrow sth an
nooskwaadaan	lick sth
nooskwaanaa	lick sth an
nootaage	quote others repeat
nootaan	quote sth repeat
nootwaa	quote smb repeat
noozwin	name
noozwin'kaadaan	sign sth sign
noozwin'ke	register to get
npaad'om	mispronounce things say
npaad'omo	mispronounce things say
npaadkizne	have ones shoes
npaadshe	hear things incorrectly
npaaj-	incorrectly the wrong
npaajbide	fly in the
npaajbiza	fly in the
npaaji-nsastam	misunderstand
npaaji-nsitam	misunderstand
npaaskaan	put sth on
npaaskawaa	put sth an
npazna'aan	hock sth pawn
npaznawaa	hock sth an
npodne	miss work
nsaa	kill smb 
nsaabaawdiiyeshin	get ones rear
nsaabaawdoon	water sth wet
nsaabaawe	be wet
nsaabaawe	be wet
nsaabaawjige	wet ones diaper
nsaabaawnaa	make smb wet
nsaabaawzideshin	get ones feet
nsaabkibdoon	pull the trigger
nsaabkise	go off 
nsaakbidoon	release sth pull
nsaakbinaa	release smb pull
nsaaknaa	open sth an
nsaaknaan	open sth
nsaaknamwaa	open something for
nsaaknigaade	be open be
nsaaknigaaza	be opened
nsaaknige	be open for
nsaakse	come open pop
nsaakse	come open pop
nsaakshin	be open
nsaakshkiinzhgwetaa	open ones eyes
nsaaksidaawe	have ones fly
nsaaksin	be open
nsaakwaasin	be blown open
nsaanat	be lonely of
nsaantaagzi	sound lonely
nsaanzi	be lonely
nsanaama	regain ones breath
nsashkboojge	cultivate weed
nsastaagot	be recognizable by
nsastaagzi	be recognizable by
nsastaan	recognize the sound
nsastam	understand
nsastamookaaza	pretend to understand
nsastamookii	explain things to
nsastamoonaa	explain something to
nsastawaa	recognize smbs voice
nsawaakdiiyebi	sit astride
nsawaakdiiyegaabwi	stand astride
{n}sayenh	my older brother
nshaap'aa	guffaw at smb
nshaapi	guffaw laugh boisterously
nshaaptoon	guffaw at sth
nshanaadat	fall apart fall
nshanaadkamgat	deteriorate of a
nshanaadkamgizi	make a mess
nshanaadkwe'ge	lose control in
nshanaadnige	fall apart under
nshanaadzi	fall apart 
nshigiiwnizi	make an allout
nshii	abort a pregnancy
{n}shiimenh	my younger sibling
nshike	alone by oneself
nshikewbi	be alone
nshikewge	live alone
nshikewshin	lie alone
nshikewte	be unoccupied of
nshikewzi	be alone be
{n}shimis	my crossniece my
nshinaadwewemaa	get smb all
nshinaaji-	devastatingly
nshitoo	be completely exhausted
nshiwe	commit murder kill
nshiwnaadendaagot	be considered ruined
nshiwnaadendaagzi	be considered ruined
nshiwnaadendam	feel devastated
nshiwnaadkamgizi	ruin things foul
nshiwnaadzi	be devastated fall
nshiwnaaj'aa	devastate smb ruin
nshiwnaaji-yaa	be ruined
nshiwnaajtoon	devastate sth ruin
nshkaabi	give an angry
nshkaabmaa	glare at smb
nshkaadendam	nurse ones anger
nshkaadiiwnaagzi	look angry
nshkaadzi	be angry be
nshkaadziikaaza	pretend to be
nshkaadziitwaa	be angry at
nshkaaji-zhi-yaa	act angry
nshkaakzi	get an erection
nshkaazaabmaa	glare at smb
nshkaaznaagzi	look angry look
nshkaaztaagzi	sound angry sound
{n}shkansh	my fingernail my
nshkenmaa	be angry with
nshki'aa	make smb angry
nshki-yaa	act angry
nshkimaa	make smb angry
nshkitaa	make people angry
nshkitaagzi	make people angry
nshkwaach	last time
{n}shtigwaan	my head
nshwaasmidna	eighty
nshwaasoobii'gan	the numeral eight
nshwaaswaabik	eight dollars
nshwaaswaak	eight hundred
nshwaaswi	eight
nsidam	regrettable unfortunate 
nsidjiinaa	recognize sth an
nsidjiinaan	recognize sth by
nsidmaamaa	recognize sth an
nsidmaandaan	recognize sth by
nsidpidaan	recognize sth by
nsidpodaan	recognize sth by
nsidpwaa	recognize sth an
nsidwaabmaa	recognize smb by
nsidwaabminaagot	look recognizable
nsidwaabminaagzi	look recognizable
nsidwaabndaan	recognize sth by
nsidwak	kill each other
nsidwendaagot	seem recognizable
nsidwendaagzi	seem recognizable
nsidwi-yaasi	be in a
nsidwin'ge	recognize things by
nsidwinaage	recognize people
nsidwinaajge	recognize people recognize
nsidwinaan	recognize sth by
nsidwinwaa	recognize smb by
nsikwe'dizo	comb ones hair
nsikwe'o	comb ones hair
nsikwewaa	comb smbs hair
nsikwewgan	a farming implement
{n}sim	my daughterinlaw
nsimdana	thirty
nsimdanwewak	be thirty in
nsing	three times
nsinoon	be three in
nsistam	understand
nsitaagot	be recognizable by
nsitaagzi	be recognizable by
nsitaan	recognize the sound
nsitam	understand
nsitamoo'aa	explain something to
nsitamoo'we	explain things to
nsitamookaazo	pretend to understand
nsitamoonaa	explain something to
nsitamwaa	understand what smb
nsitawaa	recognize smbs voice
nsiwak	be three in
nso-	three
nso-bboon	three years ago
nso-bboon'gat	be three years
nso-bboon'gizi	be three years
Nso-giizhgat	be Wednesday
nsodbik	for three nights
nsognagat	be three days
nsognagzi	be the third
nsogon	for three days
nsoo'igan	tripod
nsoobgat	have three leaves
nsoobii'gan	the numeral three
nsoode	be pinned down
nsoodoon	pin sth down
nsoonaa	catch sth an
nsoonaagan	trap device for
nsooza	be caught in
nsoozit	three feet long
nswaabiik	three rows three
nswaabik	three dollars
nswaak	three hundred
nswaatik	three bottles three
nswek	three playing cards
nswewaan'gat	be in three
nswewaan'gizi	be in three
nswi	three
Nswi-giizhgat	Wednesday
ntaa-	be good at
ntaa-debwesik	be a habitual
ntaage	butcher things make
ntaagii	mourn be in
ntaawaagii	be fertile be
ntaawaakwe	be a good
ntaawbidoon	handle sth regularly
ntaawbinaa	handle sth an
ntaawchige	do things well
ntaawgi	grow to maturity
ntaawgi'aa	grow sth an
ntaawgichge	finish growing crops
ntaawgin	grow to maturity
ntaawginaa	raise smb
ntaawginaawsa	finish raising ones
ntaawgitoon	grow sth produce
ntam	first  2
Ntam-giizhgat	Monday
ntamaage	kill something for
ntamaagen	kill something belonging
ntamgaabwi	stand first in
ntami-	first before others
ntamoozhaan	firstborn oldest child
ntamsin	be positioned first
ntoon	destroy sth kill
nwaa	take after smb
gnwaabiigat	be long of
nwaabiigzi	be long of
nwaachge	give a sign
nwaade	have a certain
nwaagshkaa	my roll in
nwaajii	be enthusiastic about
nwaajiikaan	work at sth
nwaajiikwaa	work at sth
nwaakjaane	have a long
nwaakzi	be long be
nwaanza	try to do
nwaatin	be calm of
nwaatoo	be noisy make
nwaawe	hiccough hiccup
nwadaagnaa	grab smb to
nwadaagnidwak	grab each other
nwadaapnemaa	start quarrelling with
nwadde	catch fire
nwadkone	catch fire
nwadkone	catch fire
nwadmaa	bite smb seize
nwadnaa	grab sth an
nwadnaan	grab sth take
nwadnamwaa	grab something belonging
nwadndaan	bite sth seize
nwadnige	grab things take
nwadnjige	bite things seize
nwadza	catch fire
nwagkweshin	lie with lowered
nwajbidoon	seize sth snatch
nwajbijge	grab something and
nwajbinaa	seize sth an
nwajjige	grab a snack
nwanj	more to a
nwapo	take a lunch
nwapon	take something as
nwapwaan'kawaa	make a lunch
nwapwaan'ke	make a lunch
nwapwaan'kodaadza	make a lunch
nwapwaan'kodaadzon	make a lunch
nwazmaa	argue with smb
nwe	speak in a
nwebi	rest
nwebtoon	give sth a
nwegat	be long of
nwegbizo	wear a long
nwegzi	be long of
nwekaaza	imitate a certain
nwemaa	be related to
nwesh	for a long
{n}wewebdoonaagan	my lower lip
nwewin	dialect language manner
{n}weyaan	my pelt
nwi	bullet
{n}wiibit	my tooth
{n}wiidgemaagan	my husband my
{n}wiidgik	my sister if
{n}wiidzhaan	my sibling
{n}wiij-Nishnaabe	my fellow Indian
nwiiji-	my fellow person
{n}wiiji-bemaadis	my fellow man
{n}wiijkewenh	my friend
{n}wiijkiwem	my brother
nwiindmaa	be deep of
{n}wiiyaw	my body
{n}yaan	my pelt
nyaangim	until
nzaabi	look from a
nzaabmaa	look at smb
nzaabndaan	look at sth
nzaabnjige	look at things
nzaam	because
nzaan	boil sth
nzamwaa	boil something for
{n}zhiigan	the small of
{n}zhinis	my fatherinlaw
{n}zhishenh	my uncle
{n}zidens	my toe
nzigaade	be boiled
nzigaaza	be boiled
{n}zigos	my aunt new
{n}zigzis	my motherinlaw my
nzikaa	come from a
nzikaa	come from a
{n}zit	my foot
nza	boil come to
{n}zow	my tail
{n}zowaanak	my tail
nzwaa	boil sth an
o-	go do something
odi	there over there
oo'oomsii	great horned owl
oo-	go do something
oodenaaba	ghost town
oodenaaban	ghost town
oodenaawan	be a town
oodenaw	city town
oodenaw-bneshiinh	house sparrow
oodetoo	go to town
oodewin	city town
oodi	there over there
oojii	housefly
oojiigaawesi	cricket
oojiigaawesiinh	cricket
oojiins	housefly
ookaan	farm animal
ookaan'gamik	barn esp for
ookaan-moowich	manure
ookwe	maggot
oonh	Oh
ooshenyi	get a new
ooshtibi	then
ow	this
pa'di	run in a
pa'iins	elf leprechaun
pa'we	escape along a
paa'aa	keep smb awake
paabwaan	meat used to
paabwen	use something to
paakzigan	bearberry kinnikinnick
paamaa	awaken smb accidentally
paanaashkwaa	keep smb awake
paanaazhkawaa	keep smb awake
paabkin'gan	pot holder
paabkin'ge	use a pot
pabgaa	be thin of
pabgiigat	be thin of
pabgiigzi	be thin of
pabgizi	be thin of
pabin	sit on something
pabwin	chair  2
pagdaan	throw sth pitch
pagdamwaa	throw something to
pagdawaa	throw something to
pagndaakwese	fall down from
pagndaapi	fall down from
pagndaate	fall on a
pagndagnaamaa	knock smb down
pagndiza	pass out from
pagza	throw oneself in
pakne	grasshopper cricket
paknenh	grasshopper cricket
pakteyaakshimaa	wallop smb whomp
pakwaan	roof
pakwaaniigin	canvas cover
pakwe	install roofing make
pakwen	use something as
pakweyashk	cattail
pakyashk	cattail
pan'se	make mistakes
pane	all the time
pangbiisaa	drizzle
pangbiisaan	drizzle
pangnjibde	arrive at a
pangnjibza	arrive at a
pangnjii	disembark at some
pangse	fall while moving
pangshin	fall while moving
pangwage	see bngoge
parkwi	park a car
pasaande	be bruised have
pasaanza	be bruised have
pasaanzaawe	have a black
pashko-ma'iingaans	coyote
pashkwaajiinh	balloon air bladder
paswewe	echo
pasweweshin	echo
patoo	run to a
patwaadaan	run off with
patwaanaa	run off with
paw'we	escape to a
pendaan	depend on sth
penmaa	depend on smb
penmandaagan	a reliable person
penmo	be dependent be
penmondaan	depend on sth
penmondwaa	depend on smb
penmowin	something thats depended
pichi	robin
pichiinh	robin
pichiiwi	be a robin
pide	drive in a
pidoon	handle sth in
pidyebin	sit on something
{n}pigegan	my rib of
pii	at a certain
piich	in a while
piichaa	be a certain
piichde'e	be brave enough
piichgi	be grown a
piichgidaaza	be angry to
piichgin	be grown a
piichginaawsa	be at a
piichi-	to a certain
piichiikaan	be currently working
piichiikwaa	be currently working
piichin	continually keep doing
piichnanaa	inflict a certain
piichnezi	feel a certain
piichyaa	be a certain
piikdoodooshme	have jutting breasts
piiskaa	be a certain
piisnaagot	seem to be
piisnaagzi	look to be
piitaa	be a certain
piitaagnagaa	be a certain
piitaagnagii	walk in snow
piitaagzi	be strong enough
piitaapi	laugh to a
piitaate	be hot out
piitde	be cooked a
piitendam	be distressed to
piitendi	be away a
piitnige	lift a certain
piitnigot	be of a
piitnigzi	be of a
piitoode	crawl a certain
piitzi	be a certain
piitzikaa	be a certain
piitzo	be cooked a
piknan	harness
pikweshmo'aa	let smb use
pikweshmon	pillow
pikweshmon	lay ones head
pikweshmooniigin	pillowcase
pikweshmowin	pillow
pimeshin	lie on ones
pin	potato
pinaa	handle sth an
pinii-bmidoosh	cutworm
pinii-mnidoosh	cutworm potato bug
pinii-mshkimot	potato sack
pipiichin	from time to
pisaa	be bruised
pisdoon	put sth down
pishkisi	domestic goose snow
Pishkniing	Squaw Island
pishmaa	put sth an
pishmon	lie on something
pishmoniig	mat
pishmooniigin	bedsheet
pishmowin	cushion mattress
pisjigan	pad upon which
pisjigen	use something as
piszi	be bruised
piza	drive in a
pizwin	apron
pogdaajma	relate stories at
pogdakshin	get going leisurely
pogdase	amble walk at
pogjigaade'se	amble along saunter
pogot	taste a certain
pogzi	taste a certain
pooch	have to must
pooj	anyway despite nevertheless
pwaagan	pipe for smoking
sa	so so then
saa	place sth an
saabmaa	sit and watch
saabndaan	sit and watch
saagzi	be stingy
saakwaa	come upon smb
saanwez'aa	keep smb amused
saanwezi	amuse oneself frolic
saawe	perch freshwater fish
sap	net fishnet
sabaabiins	thread
sabaap	cord rope string
sabgoojgan	drying rack for
sabiike	make nets
sabiins	sight line the
sabke	make nets
sabkeshiinh	spider
sadaawendam	grieve
sagdebwe	burr
sagskwaajme	blood sucker leech
sagtakse	be tangled get
same-ggiinwishki	tell lies in
samewendaagzi	seem enterprising
sameyaajmo	talk about different
samnaadwak	play a close
samzi	be a gogetter
san'goo	black squirrel
sanjgon	root cellar storage
sanjgon	cache something stash
se	Yuck
semaa	tobacco
semaake	work with tobacco
semaans	cigarette
sha	emphatic emphatic of
shaangshin	lie around lie
shag'aan	crush sth with
shagbidoon	crumble sth crush
shagbinaa	crumble sth an
shagboodoon	grind sth into
shagboojgan	grinder
shagboonaa	grind sth an
shagganaamaa	crush sth an
shagganaandaan	crush sth by
shaggwezgan	medicine to induce
shagi	great blue heron
shagjiibdoon	crumble sth
shagjiibnaa	crumble sth an
shagjiishkaan	crush sth with
shagjiishkwaa	crush sth an
shagkodaan	chop sth to
shagkonaa	chop sth an
shagmaa	crush sth an
shagnaa	crush sth an
shagnaan	crush sth in
shagndaan	crush sth with
shagnemaa	crush sth an
shagnendaan	crush sth in
shagshimaa	crush sth an
shagshin	crumble from striking
shagshkaan	crush sth with
shagshkawaa	crush sth an
shagsidoon	crush sth by
shagsin	crumble from striking
shagwaa	crush sth an
shagwaadaan	throw up sth
shagwaakshkaan	crush sth with
shagwaakshkawaa	crush sth an
shagwaanaa	throw up sth
shagwe	throw up vomit
shagwezwaa	make smb vomit
shagzaan	cook sth to
shagzhaan	cut sth and
shagzhwaa	cut sth an
shagzideshin	have a mangled
shagzwaa	cook sth an
shakmoonaa	spoonfeed smb
shamaa	feed smb feed
shamaawso	feed ones livestock
shamaawson	feed something to
shamoojgan	bait
shange	feed people
shanjgaazo	be fed
shashwebza	stagger
shashwedkokii	stagger
shashwedyese	stagger
shashwejiimnakse	waddle
shaw'aan	butter sth put
shawaa	butter sth an
shawebde	drive along tilted
shawebdoon	tilt sth aside
shawebnaa	tilt sth an
shawebza	drive along tilted
shawedyeshin	lie on ones
shawejiibgiza	roll quickly onto
shawejiise	fall over sideways
shawejiise	fall over sideways
shawejiishin	lie on ones
shawejiisin	lie on its
shawejiiyebnaa	throw smb onto
shawejiiyebnaan	throw sth onto
shawekna	at the side
shawekwegoojin	have ones head
shawekweni	tilt ones head
shawekweshin	lie with ones
shawekwetaa	tilt ones head
shaweshin	lie on ones
shaweshkaa	be tilted
shaweshkaa	be tilted
shawesin	lie on one
shawetaa	lean to the
shaweyiing	alongside of something
shawgen	use something as
shekshimaa	arrange sth an
shekshinook	be arranged in
sheksidoon	arrange sth in
sheksinoon	be arranged in
sheyaabiisdoon	arrange sth in
sheyaabiishin	be arranged in
sheyaabiishmaa	arrange sth an
sheyaabiisin	be arranged in
shi	and with numbers
shibaawaa	have a hole
shibaayiigin	veil
shibaayiigni-mjigoodenh	dress made of
bshibjige	lose ones footing
shidaakpide	be fastened tightly
shidaakpiza	be fastened tightly
shigan	general word for
shigboodoon	grind sth 
shigboojgan	grinder
shigboonaa	grind sth an
shigjii'aan	crush sth
shigjiiwaa	crush sth an
shigkamga'gan	cultivator
shigkamga'ge	break up the
shigshin	fall to pieces
shigshkaa	crumble
shigshkaa	crumble
shigsin	fall to pieces
shiibendam	be dedicated
shiibtaage	be disobedient
shiibtam	disobey
shiignaapne	have a backache
shinaadat	be ruined fall
shinaadendaagot	be considered ruined
shinaadendaagzi	be considered ruined
shinaadendam	be devastated feel
shinaadkamgizi	make a mess
shinaadzi	be devastated be
shinaaj'aa	waste sth an
shinaaji-yaa	be ruined
shinaajtoon	waste sth
shining	shilling bit monetary
shka'aa	new thing
shka'ii	new thing
shka'iiwan	be a fresh
shka'iiwi	be a fresh
shka'mii	have ones feet
Shkaabewis	helper in ceremonies
shkaakdiyebi	have a tired
shkamoonaa	stuff something in
shkanzhiikaajgan	horseshoe
shkendam	grieve deeply
shki'aa	new thing
shki'aawan	be a fresh
shki'aawi	be a fresh
shki'ii	new thing
shki-	new  2
shki-	first for the
Shki-bboon-giisoons	January Little Newwinter
shki-zhwendaagzi	receive First Communion
shkigaabwi	be tired from
shkigi	be a new
shkigin	be a new
shkiinzhgokaajgan	monocle
shkiinzhgokaajganan	eye glasses
shkiinzhgwaapne	have an eye
shkikmaan	lead metal a
shkikmaanaaboo	solder
shkikmaanens	bullet
shkime	lace snowshoes
shkinaagot	look new
shkinaagzi	look new
shkiniigi	youth hired hand
shkiniigi	be young
shkiniigish	male teenager young
shkiniigkaazo	pretend to be
shkiniigkwe	teenage girl young
shkiniignaagzi	look young look
shkinwe	young man male
shkinwekaazo	pretend to be
shkinwewi	be a young
shkizde	have ones feet
shkizdegaabwi	have ones feet
shkoboodoon	leave sth fallow
shkoboonaa	leave sth an
shkode	fire
shkode-daabaan	train railroad train
shkode-daabaan	train railroad train
shkode-jiimaan	steamboat
shkode-jiimaan	steamboat
shkodens	match for lighting
shkodewaaboo	whiskey
shkomaa	leave sth an
shkon'gan	reservation American term
shkon'ge	leave things behind
shkonaa	leave sth an
shkonaan	leave sth untouched
shkondaan	leave sth uneaten
shkonjgan	leftovers
shkonmawaa	leave something behind
shkonnaa	leave smb alive
shkoopnaa	tie smb up
shkose	be left over
shkose	be left over
shkosen	have something left
shkozhaan	cut sth and
shkozhgan	remnants from cutting
shkozhwaa	cut sth an
shkwaa-	after doing something
shkwaa-aabdat	be no longer
shkwaa-aabdizi	be no longer
shkwaa-kiiwan	be the end
shkwaa-nakiikmigat	work be over
shkwaach	last in a
shkwaagza	be the end
shkwaakmigat	be over of
shkwaandem	door
shkwaataa	die  2
shkwaawaasge	die  2
shkwaay'iing	behind
shkwaayaaj	last in sequence
shkwaayaasge	be the end
shkwamaa	leave sth an
shkwandaan	leave sth uneaten
shkwedaagan	youngest child last
shkwenjiins	little finger
shkwenoozwin	last name surname
shkweyaang	at the end
shoo'aan	paint with sth
shoobiig'aan	paint sth liberally
shoobiigwaa	paint sth an
shoodaakshimaa	lay sth an
shoodaakshin	lie flush with
shoodaakshkaan	be pressed up
shoodaakshkawaa	be pressed up
shoodaaksidoon	lay sth flush
shoodaaksin	lie flush with
shoodaan	rub something on
shoodnaa	press sth an
shoodnaan	press sth on
shoogaaden	rub something pasty
shoogaadenaa	rub something pasty
shoogan	butter spread condiment
shoogen	spread something on
shoon'ken	rub something pasty
shoon'kenaa	rub something pasty
shoonaa	rub sth an
shoonaan	rub sth on
shoondben	rub something pasty
shoondbenaa	rub something pasty
shoonjiin	rub something pasty
shoonjiinaa	rub something pasty
shoosga'aan	paint sth in
shoosga'mawaa	paint something for
shoosgage	paint in nonartistic
shoosgawaa	paint sth an
shoowaa	paint with sthan
shoowaawganenaa	rub something pasty
shoozden	rub something pasty
shoozdenaa	rub something pasty
shoozhen	rub something pasty
shpa'ooza	hang high be
shpaa	be high
shpaa'aa	make smb excited
shpaagnagaa	be deep snow
shpaatmawaa	make something high
shpaatoon	make sth high
shpaazi	be apprehensive
shpadnaa	be a high
shpagmaa	charge lots for
shpagmo	soar
shpagndaan	charge lots for
shpagnde	be costly be
shpakmigaa	be high ground
shpangza	be costly be
shpashkaa	be high grass
shpendiza	be a snob
shpide-dbik	in the middle
shpijiishin	be heaped up
shpijiisin	lie in such
shpiming	above on high
shpimsagkaade	have an upstairs
shpimsagoong	upstairs
shpinaa	hold sth an
shpinaan	hold sth high
shpinmawaa	hold something high
shpisdoon	pile sth high
shpishin	be piled high
shpishmaa	pile sth an
shpisin	be piled high
shpizi	be high
shtaahaa	holy holy cow
shtaataahaa	holy holy cow
shwaachgwaasang	applique
shwii	but though
siboodmawaa	sharpen something for
siboodoon	file sth to
siboodwaa	sharpen something for
siboojgan	file whetstone
siboonaa	file sth an
sigam	Sicem Attack
sigban'gamde	of the way
signaak	general word for
signaawish	earthworm
siidaanwi	play hooky
siikzi	be older than
siim'oonh	wood duck
sin	rock stone
sin'kikaa	be rocky of
sin'kiki	rocky ground
sinaamish	sugar maple
sindbepzowin	decorative headband
sinii-waagaakot	stone axe
siniikaa	be rocky
siniikaajgan	stone foundation stone
siniiswaapne	have gallstones
siniiswidaawang	gravel bed
sipnigan	scissors
ska'aagan	tent pole
ska'aan	drain a well
ska'win	cane crutch
skaabkizaan	boil sth dry
skaabkizwaa	boil sth an
skaan	sconetype biscuit scone
skaan	sconetype biscuit scone
skakii'ge	be a best
skan'zi	be lean be
skanaabiigzi	be skinny
skanjiin	berry  buds
skate	dry up of
skigmide	boil dry
skigmiza	boil dry
skigmizaan	boil sth dry
skigmizekwe	boil things down
skigmizge	boil things down
skigmizwaa	boil sth an
skisdoon	insert the tip
skishin	the tip of
skishmaa	insert the tip
skisin	the tip of
skoon'gamik	school school building
skoonwi	be at school
skoonwikdaan	study sth work
skowo	use a cane
soodii	baking soda
soodiins	a pinch of
sosdam	cough
sosdamookaaza	pretend to cough
sosnaamshkaagon	be made to
spaajiinaa	give smb a
spobdoon	pull sth together
spobjigaade	be closed eg
spobjigaaza	be closed
spobjige	pull things closed
spobnaa	pull  sth
spodyaamaa	sit on smb
spodyaandaan	wear sth really
spogi	close up heal
spogin	close up heal
spogwaadaan	sew sth together
spogwaanaa	sew sth an
spokmigse	cave in close
sponemaa	swallow up sth
sponendaan	swallow up sth
spwegaabkagnaamaa	dent sth an
spwegaabkagnaandaan	dent sth by
spwegaabkisdoon	dent sth from
spwegaabkishin	be dented get
spwegaabkishkaan	dent sth by
spwegaabkishkwaa	dent sth an
spwegaabkishmaa	dent sth an
spwegaabkisin	be dented get
swe'oondim	be distributed be
sweb'idwak	disperse running scatter
swebde	disperse flying scatter
swebiig'anjge	sprinkle water
swebza	disperse flying scatter
swegi	spread out in
swegin	spread out in
swegmishin	leap and splash
swekaa	spread out
swekaawak	spread out
swese	scatter splash splinter
swese	scatter splash splinter
sweshkaa	break up disperse
sweshkaa	break up disperse
swewebnaa	scatter sth an
swewebnaan	scatter sth sow
swewebnigan	spreader
swewebnige	scatter things about
sweyaajma	spread news 
swii	but though
taadbii	work fast
taadbinese	breathe fast pant
taadwak	bet one another
taage	compete in a
taasjigan	doily
taasoowgamik	storage shed tool
taaswin	cabinet cupboard dresser
taayaa	Holy smokes oops
tajaagwan	gar a kind
tamaa	draw on sth
tamwaa	place something for
tasenwan	be Halloween
tawaa	bet smb compete
te	be in a
tibaakse	get caught around
tibaakse	get caught around
tibaakwegnaa	roll sth an
tibaakwegnaan	roll sth up
tibdoowan	wheel of a
tibgwaadaan	sew along the
tibgwaanaa	sew along the
tibninjiibzon	ring for the
tibninjiibzowin	ring for the
tiboodoon	roll sth of
dikon	branch of plant
tisaan	colour sth dye
tisgan	dye paint
tisge	dye ones hair
tiswaa	colour sth an
toobaajgan	vat
toon	place sth in
wa	it an that
wa-	go and do
waa	use sth an
waa'oonenh	whippoorwill
waa'oonwenh	whippoorwill
waab-gaak	white porcupine
waab-gekek	marsh hawk
waab-gookook'oonh	snowy owl
waab-gookookoonh	wedding cake
waab-signaak	bobolink
waabaabkaa	be pale of
waabaabkide	be whitish from
waabaabkizi	be whitish from
waabaagmiingwe	have gray eyes
waabaakot	be gray of
waabaakzi	be gray of
waabaan'kot	gray cloud white
waabaande	be gray be
waabaanza	be gray be
waabaasa	be faded by
waabaate	be faded by
waaban	be dawn be
waabang	tomorrow
waabde	be ripe ripen
waabgan	clay
waabgan'igaade	be in a
waabgan'ige	plaster a wall
waabgon	blossom
waabgonoojiinh	mouse
waabi	see be able
waabi-mnoomin	white rice
waabiingwe	be palefaced as
waabjiiyaa	be gray be
waabjiizi	be gray be
waabkwaan	a strand of
waabkwe	get gray hair
waabmaa	see smb 
waabmin	apple
waabmin'gat	be pale of
waabmin'gizi	be pale of
waabnaabooza	drink till dawn
waabnaagot	look pale look
waabnaagzi	look pale look
waabnda'aa	show something to
waabnda'diwak	show things to
waabnda'we	exhibit things
waabndaan	see sth 
waabndamaagen	see something belonging
waabndame	be able to
waabndamwaa	see something belonging
waabndan'kaajgane	examine things take
waabndetoo	be out visiting
waabndiwak	see one another
waabni-shamaa	feed smb until
waabni-taage	gamble until dawn
waabnigiishwesiins	least bittern bird
waabnjimzin'igne	look at a
waabnong	east in the
waaboos	rabbit
waaboowaanbak	common mullein herbaceous
waabooyaan	blanket
waaboozoo	rabbit
waaboozoonh	rabbit
waabshkaa	be gray be
waabshkaabde	have white teeth
waabshkaabkat	be white of
waabshkaabkizi	be white of
waabshkaagmi	be white of
waabshkaagnesin	be lightly sprinkled
waabshkaakgaabwi	be white of
waabshkaanzaan	colour sth white
waabshkaanzwaa	colour sth an
waabshkat	be gray be
waabshki-tisaan	paint sth white
waabshkidsaan	paint sth white
waabshkidye-aamoo	species of large
waabshkiigaans	handkerchief
waabshkiigin	white cloth
waabshkiiwe	be white in
waabshkindbe	be whiteheaded have
waabshkizi	be gray be
waabshkoki	marsh
waabza	be ripe ripen
waabzi	be pale be
waabzidaamaa	leave smb in
waabzii	swan whistling swan
waagaa	be bent be
waagaakdaatgoke	make axe handles
waagaakdaatik	axe handle
waagaakdoons	hatchet
waagaakdwaanaatik	axe handle
waagaakot	axe
waagbide	move in a
waagbinwenh	screech owl
waagbiza	move in a
waaggi	grow bent grow
waaggin	grow bent grow
waaggizi	be warped of
waagjaane	have a curved
waagjiitaa	bend bend over
waagkaagan	rainbow
waagnaagot	look twisted
waagnaagzi	look twisted
waagnen	what
waagosh	fox
waagosh-weyaan	fox pelt
waagshenh	fox
waagshkaa	be bent bend
waagshkaa	be bent bend
waagshkoode	be bent from
waagshkooza	be bent from
waagzi	be bent be
waak	fish egg
waak	fish egg
waakaa'gan	fort any circular
waakaabtoo	run in a
waakaashkaan	circle sth go
waakaashkwaa	circle sth an
waakaawse	walk around something
waaknak	lichen
waakoonsak	fish eggs roe
waakwaagmiingwe	have blue eyes
waakwiing	in heaven
waan'aa	make good use
waan'kaadaan	dig sth out
waan'kaan	hole in the
waan'kaanaa	dig sth an
waan'ke	dig a hole
waan'kii	be safe from
waan'kiiyendam	feel safe feel
waandizo	be rich
waandoosbiisin	be puddles of
waanji-	most to the
waanjiinat	be abundant be
waanjiini	be abundant be
waannashkaanh	prostitute
waannibde	drive around something
waannibtoo	run around something
waannibza	drive around something
waannishkaa	follow a roundabout
waannishkaan	circle sth go
waannishkwaa	circle sth an
waannose	walk around something
waantoon	make good use
waanzh	cave den lair
waapoone	butterfly
waasa	far far away
waasaabkide	glitter sparkle be
waasaabkiza	glitter sparkle be
waasaabzi	be blinded by
waasaagnashk	species of reed
waasbakwede	reflect light from
waasbakweza	reflect light from
waasechgan	window
waasechganaabik	glass windowpane
waasechganiigin	window curtain
waasenjgamwaa	shine a light
waasenjge	shine a light
waasete	be bright in
waaseyaa	be light out
waaseyaabi	see light
waaseyaagmi	be clear of
waaseyaazi	be radiant be
waasgan	pepper the spice
waasgang	pepper the spice
waasgang-kosmaan	bell pepper sweet
waasheyaagmi	be translucent of
waashkiiwgizde	have ones skin
waashkiiwgizi	have ones dermis
waasii	catfish
waasiinh	catfish
waaskode	shine be bright
waaskogzhiichge	put nail polish
waaskojii'aan	polish sth shine
waaskojiimawaa	polish something for
waaskojiiwaa	polish sth an
waaskone	glow be lit
waaskone	glow be lit
waaskonebjige	turn the lights
waaskonechgaans	flashlight  2
waaskonechgan	lamp lantern light
waaskonechganaaboo	kerosene
waaskonendaan	shine a light
waaskonendwaa	shine a light
waaskonenjgan	light for illumination
waaskonenjge	shine a light
waaskonese	come on flash
waaskonese	come on flash
waaskosga'aan	polish sth varnish
waaskosga'gan	varnish
waaskosga'ge	polish the floor
waaskosgawaa	polish sth an
waaskozi	shine be bright
waasmo	flash lightning commonly
waasmowin	electricity hydro 
waasnoode	be northern lights
waaswaa	jacklight esp use
waaswat	be distant be
waaswendaagot	seem far
waaswendaan	have sth seem
waataawaa	Well what do
waatko'ge	signal someone to
waatko'mawaa	signal smb to
waawaabgonoojiinh	mouse
waawaabmaa	stare at smb
waawaabmowin	mirror
waawaabndaan	stare at sth
waawaach	even expressing a
waawaaggaade	be bowlegged
waawaanak	in ample time
waawaanwewdam	have garbled speech
waawaashkesh	deer
waawaashkeshi	deer
waawaashkeshi-giiwse	hunt deer
waawaashkeshi-weyaan	deer pelt deer
Waawaaskone-giizis	May Flower Moon
waawaaskonenh	flower
waawaatesi	firefly
waawaatko'aa	beckon to smb
waawaatko'ge	beckon someone to
waawan	egg
waawan-kokbinaagan	Easter basket
waawen'gan	bushel basket
waawiikaa	infrequently sporadically
waawiinaa	name smb give
waawiindaan	name sth
waawiindmawaa	promise smb something
waawnaaboo	raw egg
waawnaatese	be funny of
waawnaatese	be funny of
waawndoosbiisin	be puddles
waawnendaagzi	be funny fool
waawnendam	be amused find
waawni'aa	give smb whats
waawnimaa	put smb in
waawninaagot	be cute look
waawninaagzi	be cute look
waawnitaan	find sth that
waawnitwaa	find smb that
waawnizi	get whats coming
waawnoons	birds egg
waawoono	howl
waawye-	round
waawye-bgaan	walnut
waawyegwaa	hew sth an
waawyemoowe	have round droppings
waawyesdoon	set sth down
waawyese	twister tornado
waawyeshmaa	set sth an
waawyeyaa	be round
waawyeyaabkizi	be round 
waawyezi	be round
waayaak	hickory
waazh	cave den lair
wadi	there over there
wagdagwen	something or other
wakaan	farm animal
wakaan'gamik	barn for animals
wan	be foggy
wanbiisaa	be a drizzling
wanbiisaan	be a drizzling
wanmaa	confound smb with
was	Scat Shoo Go
was-odi	way over there
was-oodi	way over there
washme	more than another
washta	farther beyond yonder
washtibi	then
wasnaago	day before yesterday
waswaabang	day after tomorrow
waya	any anyone singular
web'ajii	remove manure
webaasdoon	blow sth away
webaashi	blow away be
webaashmaa	blow sth an
webaasin	blow away
webaawngwe	remove ashes
webi-	begin to do
webii	go take off
webiichgediikmigat	be a race
webiichgedwak	race one another
webkamgat	start get underway
webnaa	abandon smb throw
webnaan	abandon sth throw
webtaa	start doing something
wedaase	brave hero
wedi	that over there
wegdagwenish	jerk someone behaving
wegdogwen	whatever
wegnen	what
wegnesh	who what an
wegnesh	what  2
wegwen	somebody or other
wegwen	something or other
wegwenh	goodfornothing soandso no
wegwenh	goodfornothing soandso no
wegwenshidik	goodfornothing soandso no
Wemtigoozhii	Frenchman
Wemtigoozhiibii'aan	write sth in
Wemtigoozhiibii'ge	write in French
Wemtigoozhiima	speak French
Wemtigoozhiimtawaa	speak French to
wenaabmaa	choose sth an
wenaabndaan	choose sth select
wenaabnjige	choose select look
wenaakdabi	sit down
wenaakshin	lie down
wenbi	sit down take
wenbik	for a little
wenbise	flop down to
wenda-	of no special
wenda-gnebik	garter snake
wendgo	virtually almost to
wendzi	be easy find
wene	who interrogative used
wene	what
wenen	who interrogative used
wenen	what
wenesh	who what an
wenesh	who what an
weniijaanit	mother
wenjishing	a thing of
wenjishit	a thing of
wenpan'zi	be easy be
wenpanat	happen easily be
wenpazhnewaa	buy sth an
wenpazhne'aan	buy sth at
wepdaan	hit sth strike
wepdamwaa	hit something belonging
wepdawaa	hit smb strike
wepjigaans	hammer
wepjigan	baseball bat
wepjigen	hit an object
weshimaa	arrange sth an
weshin	lie down
weshoowdabi	sit at the
weshoowshin	be prepared lie
weshoowsin	be prepared lie
wesiinh	animal creature
wewaagaag	banana
wewebaabii	fish with a
wewebaabiiggaadese	swing ones leg
wewebaabiignaa	swing sth an
wewebaabiignaan	swing sth of
wewebaabiigshkaan	swing sth with
wewebaabiigshkawaa	swing sth an
wewebaanwese	wag ones tail
wewebaashi	flap in the
wewebaasin	flap in the
wewebdaamkagnese	chew with ones
wewebnaa	swing smb on
wewebnaabii	icefish
wewebnaan	swing sth
wewebza	swing in playing
wewebzowin	swing the device
wewena	carefully with care
weweni	properly good well
wewenjganoonh	longeared owl Asio
wewenong	with ample space
wewiibendaagot	be urgent be
wewiibendaagzi	be urgent be
wewiibshkaa	be back quick
wewiibtaa	be quick in
wewiimgwaagens	Bluewinged teal Anas
wewiinbaanh	squash
wewiip	quickly in a
weyiiban	by all means
weyoosit	a mans child
wezh'aa	dress smb up
wezh'o	dress up paint
wezhnge	cheat at a
wezhsa'aa	deke smb make
wezhsidoon	arrange sth put
wezhtoon	fix sth up
wi	that inan it
wi'aa	lend something to
wi'wen	lend something
wi-	go and do
wibaa	carry sound far
widi	there over there
wii	it an her
wii 	darn shit no
wiihaa 	No way expressing
wiishi 	Darn Shit
wii'gadoonh	an item of
wii'gi'aa	waste sth an
wii'gine	have ones death
wii'ginnaa	waste smbs life
wii'gishin	be injured from
wii'gitoon	waste sth shamefully
wii-	going to do
wii-debweshki	always want to
wiiba	early  2
wiibge	have a small
wiibte	be small have
wiidbimaa	sit beside smb
wiidge	marry be married
wiidgemaa	live with smb
wiidgemaagni	be married get
wiidgendwaa	live with smb
wiidgendwak	live together be
wiidookaaza	help others 
wiidooke	help be a
wiidookwaa	help smb give
wiidoopmaa	eat with smb
wiidoopndiwak	eat with each
wiidoopnge	eat with others
wiidsemaa	walk with smb
wiig'asiinh	dustballs
wiigbaatik	American basswood
wiigbiish	American basswood
wiigbiishaatik	American basswood
wiigbimizh	American basswood
wiigbimzhii-nagek	basswood bark
wiigendaagot	be considered a
wiigendaagzi	have ones death
wiigob-nagek	basswood bark
wiigop	basswood bark
wiigwaam	house  2
wiigwaamens	bathroom outhouse toilet
wiigwaas	paper birch
wiigwaas	birchbark
wiigwaas-mkak	birchbark box
wiigwaasaatik	paper birch
wiigwaasmin	cherry
wiigwaasminaatik	cherry tree
wiigwaasmish	paper birch
wiigwaaso-mtik	paper birch
wiigwaatik	paper birch
wiigweke	build a house
wiijbatoomaa	run around with
wiijbatoonge	run around with
wiijbiimaa	get drunk with
wiijgaabwitwaa	stand with smb
wiijgaamaa	dance with smb
wiijgaandwak	dance with each
wiijgendwaa	live platonically with
wiiji-	with
wiiji-dnakiinge	reside with another
wiiji-mnikwemaa	drink with smb
wiiji-piitziimaa	be the same
wiijiindwak	accompany one another
wiijiiwaa	accompany smb go
wiijiiwe	accompany people join
wiijiiwechge	arrange a mating
wiijiiwewin	membership
wiijiyaawaa	live with smb
wiijkewendiwak	be friends with
wiijkewenmaa	befriend smb be
wiijnakiimaa	work with smb
wiijsemaa	walk with smb
wiikaa	ever  2
wiikbidoon	pull sth tug
wiikbijgan	drawer
wiikbinaa	pull sth an
wiikboodoon	suck sth up
wiikboonaa	suck sth an
wiikdaabaadaan	pull sth dragging
wiikdaabaanaa	pull sth an
wiikdaabii	pull something
wiikenh	sweet flag waterside
wiikji'aa	try sth an
wiikjitoo	try
wiikjitoon	try to accomplish
wiikjiwnaa	invite smb ask
wiikjiwnakii	invite several people
wiikmaa	invite smb to
wiikmaa	suck sth an
wiikndaan	suck sth
wiiknge	invite people to
wiikpidoon	tie sth up
wiikpinaa	tie sth an
wiiksa'aa	pull sth an
wiiksatoon	pull sth with
wiikse	jerk from being
wiikse	jerk from being
wiikwaaboode	be pulled by
wiikwaabooza	be pulled by
wiikwaan	cap hat
wiikwaashi	be pulled by
wiikwaasin	be pulled by
wiikwe'o	have something draped
wiikwe'on	drape something over
wiikwebiiyaa	be a bay
wiikwebjigan	love medicine
wiikwebnaa	put smb under
wiikwegmaa	be a bay
wiikwejiipdoon	wrap sth
wiikwejiipnaa	wrap sth an
wiikwemik	bay with a
wiikwendbebzon	baboushka kerchief
wiikwendbepza	wear a kerchief
wiikwepdoon	wrap sth
wiikwepnaa	wrap sth an
wiikwet	bay
wiikweyaa	be a bay
wiikweyaakwaa	be semicircular of
wiikwii	pull at something
wiikwiichge	have a horsepull
wiikzomaa	coax smb entice
wiimbaawaa	be hollow be
wiimbgan	marrow
wiimbnaate	soot
wiimbnakat	be hollow
wiimbnakdoonh	hollow log hollow
wiimbnakzi	hollow tree
wiimbnakzi	be hollow 
wiimbwewe	sound hollow
wiimbwewe	sound hollow
wiin	it an he
wiin'aa	get smb dirty
wiin'gamgwe	have a dirty
wiin'kamgizi	dirty things up
wiin'zik	yellow birch
wiinaabiigat	be dirty all
wiinaabiiggaade	have dirty legs
wiinaabiiggwewe	have a dirty
wiinaabiigzi	be dirty all
wiinaabiigzide	have dirty feet
wiinaagmi	be dirty of
wiinaan'giingwe	have a dirty
wiinaange	turkey vulture
wiinaapne	get VD have
wiinan	fat
wiinat	be dirty
Wiinbiigoo	HoChunk Indian formerly
wiindgoo	windigo cannibal icemonster
wiindgoo-bneshiins	eastern kingbird
wiindgoowi	be a monster
wiindmaage	relate information tell
wiindmaagoowewzi	be informed of
wiindmawaa	inform smb of
wiinendaan	consider sth dirty
{n}wiinendip	my brain
wiinenmaa	consider smb dirty
wiingash	sweet grass
wiingashk	sweet grass
wiinge	entire entire group
wiinge-	completely entirely thoroughly
wiingezi	be careful in
wiingshkogwaasa	sew sweetgrass
wiingshkoo'iin	sweet grass basket
wiinis	lech lecher
wiinjaane	be snotty nosed
wiinjiinaa	dirty sth an
wiinjiinaan	dirty sth by
wiinjiishkwigaa	be muddy outside
wiinmaa	speak unpleasantly about
wiinnaagot	be dirty of
wiinnaagzi	be dirty of
wiinnajiinh	fatso
wiinndaan	speak unpleasantly about
wiinndibe	have a dirty
wiinninjii	have dirty hands
wiinninjiishin	get ones hands
wiinno	be fat of
wiinno'aa	fatten sth an
wiinnochgaaza	be fattened
wiinnonaagzi	look fat of
wiinsagaa	be dirty of
wiintaagot	sound dirty
wiintaagzi	say something dirty
wiintaan	find something that
wiintamwaa	dirty something belonging
wiintawaa	find something that
wiintoon	get sth dirty
wiinwaa	they an them
wiinzi	be dirty be
wiinzide	have dirty feet
wiinzideshin	get ones feet
wiinziikaajge	dirty the floor
wiinziikge	dirty the floor
wiinzis	a strand of
wiinzop	gall bladder
wiipe	have sex with
wiipemaa	share a bed
wiipendaan	sleep with sth
wiisgaagmi	be bitter taste
wiisgaak	black ash
wiisgaakdiiyebi	have a pain
wiisgaakke	collect black ash
wiisgagnaamaa	hurt smb in
wiisgan	be bitter taste
wiisgendan	be acutely upset
wiisgendmi'aa	hurt smbs feelings
wiisgibnaa	hurt smb in
wiisgide'etwaa	hurt smb emotionally
wiisgidemaa	make smb acutely
wiisgimaagot	smell like urine
wiisgimaagzi	smell like urine
wiisgindbe	have a painful
wiisgine	be hurting
wiisginezi	be in pain
wiisgipgot	be bittertasting taste
wiisgipgozi	be bittertasting taste
wiisgishin	hurt oneself in
wiisgishkwaa	hurt smb with
wiisgitoo	suffer be in
wiisgizi	be bitter
wiishkba'aan	sweeten sth put
wiishkbaagmi	be sweettasting taste
wiishkban	be sweet of
wiishkbanjge	eat sweet stuff
wiishkbawaa	sweeten sth an
wiishkbinnii	a person with
wiishkbipgot	be sweettasting taste
wiishkbipgozi	be sweettasting taste
wiishkbizi	be sweet
wiishkbiziiwpogot	taste sweet and
wiishkbiziiwpogzi	taste sweet and
wiishksaan	smoke sth 
wiishkswaa	smoke sth an
wiishktemaagot	smell smoky
wiishktemaagzi	smell smoky
wiishktewgamik	smoke house
wiiskgashkzi	have a screechy
wiiskwizi	sense missing
wiisni	eat
wiisniikaaza	pretend to eat
wiisniikmigat	be eating going
wiisniwaagan	table SEO 
wiisniwin	 food 
wiiwegjiinaa	wrap sth an
wiiwegjiinaan	wrap sth up
wiiwjiinaa	wrap smb up
wiiwkwaan	cap hat
wiiwkwejiinaa	wrap smb up
wiiwkwenaan	wrap sth up
wiiwkwendbebzon	baboushka kerchief
wiiyaas	flesh meat
wiiyaaswaaboo	gravy  2
wiiyaaswan	be meaty
wiiyaaswi	be meaty
wiizh	animals lodge
wis	Scat Shoo
wiya	someone something animate
wizhzi	wave ones money
wizo	warm oneself up
wjepaadzi	be agile be
wjepzi	be athletic be
Wjibwemo	speak Chippewa speak
Wjibwesin	be written in
wjiik	fisher animal
wmba'aan	elevate sth with
wmba'go	get a swelling
wmbaabiigbidoon	pull sth up
wmbaabiigbinaa	pull sth an
wmbaabiignaa	raise sth an
wmbaabiignaan	raise sth on
wmbaabiignigaade	be hoisted be
wmbaabiignigaaza	be hoisted be
wmbaabte	have dust fly
wmbaashi	blow upwards be
wmbaasin	blow upwards be
wmbabgwaashkni	jump up and
wmbagnaanjge	be pregnant of
wmbawaa	elevate sth an
wmbibde	fly up take
wmbibza	fly up
wmbigwaashkni	jump up
wmbiigwewe	be noisy make
wmbiigwewe	be noisy make
wmbiigwewebde	be noisy make
wmbiigwewebzo	be noisy make
wmbiigwewejaanengwaamo	snore
wmbiigweweshmaa	flap sth an
wmbiigzi	be noisy call
wmbimaa	incite smb stir
wmbinaa	elevate sth an
wmbinaan	elevate sth lift
wmbinmoo'aa	get smb to
wmbishkaa	ascend go up
wmbishkaa	ascend go up
wmbisjige	let dough rise
wmboomaa	lift sth an
wmboondaan	lift sth heavy
wnaadngoshi	have a nightmare
wndaabkaadaan	tie sth from
wndaabso	have smoke coming
wndaabte	be smoke coming
wndaadzi	be born
wndaadziike	give birth
wndaanmat	blow from a
wndademo	cry for a
wndagnaadaan	hit sth for
wndagnaamaa	hit smb for
wndagoode	fall from a
wndagoojdoon	let sth drop
wndagoojmaa	let sth an
wndane'aan	look for sth
wndanewaa	look for smb
wndawewdam	shout for a
wnde	be absent temporarily
wndendi	be absent temporarily
wndin'ge	buy things from
wndinaa	get sth an
wndinaan	buy sth from
wndinmawaa	get something for
wndotaan	listen for sth
wndotwaa	listen for sth
wnendaan	forget sth forget
wnenmaa	forget about smb
wnibde	get lost while
wnibza	get lost while
wnichge	lose things
wniike	forget sth somewhere
wnise	be mistaken in
wnishi	be effective be
wnishin	get lost lose
wnishin	be effective be
wnishkaa	get up from
wnitoon	lose sth
wnji-	because of on
wnjibaa	be from a
wnjibde	drive from a
wnjibdoon	pull sth from
wnjibnaa	pull sth an
wnjibzo	come in the
wnjida	deliberately on purpose
wnjigaa	leak well up
wnjigaa	leak well up
wnjigaabwi	stand in a
wnjijwan	flow from a
wnjikaamgat	come from a
wnjiknaa	leave smb behind
wnzaan	boil sth
wnzamwaa	boil something for
wnzo	see nzo
wnzwaa	boil sth an
woosi	have a father
wshkibdoon	pull sth in
wshkibnaa	pull sth an
wwaabmaa	see sth an
wwaabndaan	see sth over
wwenbi	seat oneself sit
wyeshmo	rest
wyezhnge	cheat at a
wzaabi	look from a
wzaabwin	lookout tower observation
wzhashk	muskrat
wzhashk-weyaan	muskrat pelt
wzhashk-wiizh	muskrat lodge
wzhi'aa	arrange sth an
wzhibii'aan	draw sth write
wzhibii'gaade	be written say
wzhibii'gaaza	be written about
wzhibii'getmawaa	write a letter
wzhibii'mawaa	write something for
wzhibiiwaa	draw smb write
wzhibiiyge	writing
wzhichgaade	be arranged be
wzhichgaaza	be arranged be
wzhigaadaan	build a shelter
wzhigaanaa	build a shelter
wzhigwaa	build a shelter
wzhiitaa	get ready
wzhiitaa'aa	prepare sth an
wzhiitaatoon	prepare sth get
wzhiitaawshimaa	make sth an
wzhiitaawshin	be prepared be
wzhiitaawsidoon	make sth ready
wzhiitaawsin	be prepared lie
wzhitmawaa	make something for
wzhitoon	arrange sth arrange
wzhitwaa	make something for
ya'aa	the person that
ya'aanh	the person that
ya'ii	the thing that
yaa	be in a
yaa	be in a
yaa 	Oh my
yaabesim	male dog
yaabesmosh	male dog
yaabshkiiwet	white person
yaakgaade	have legs of
yaakwaakgaade	have legs of
yaakwaan'kwe	have hair of
yaamwaa	buy something for
yaan	have sth buy
yaawaa	have st an
yaawnaadkamik	extremely
yabi	be at home
yawenh	ouch
yekdiiyebi	have a tired
yekgaabwi	be tired from
yekgaade	have ones legs
yekgwaasa	be tired from
yekw'aa	make smb tired
yekwaa	at the end
yekwaa-	at the end
yekwaamat	end of roads
yekwaawaabiisin	end of fences
yekwaay'iing	at the end
yekzi	be tired
yekzi'aa	make smb tired
yekziiwnaagzi	look tired
yekziwin	fatigue tiredness
yeshkat	at first initially
yeyiidooy'ii	at both ends
yeyiidwagaat	on both legs
yeyiidwikna	on both sides
yeyiidwinik	on both arms
yeyiidwiy'iing	at both ends
yinaabi	look around
yoon	use sth LH
yoonh	Oh
zaabendaan	care for sth
zaabenmaa	care for sth
zaabi	look from a
zaabmaa	look at smb
zaabndaan	look at sth
zaabnjige	look at things
zaabwin	lookout tower observation
zaaday	poplar
zaag'aa	love smb treasure
zaag'am	go out exit
zaag'amoogmik	bathroom outhouse washroom
zaag'idwak	love one another
zaag'igan	lake
zaagaabde	get teeth have
zaagaabgonii	come out come
zaagaabgonii	come out come
zaagaabiigkone	come out of
zaagaabiishin	stick out in
zaagaabiisin	stick out in
zaagaabsa	give off smoke
zaagaabsaawe	produce smoke from
zaagaabte	emit smoke have
zaagaagneshin	stick out of
zaagaakgaadeshin	lie with ones
zaagaakshimaa	leave sth an
zaagaakshin	protrude stick out
zaagaaksidoon	leave sth protruding
zaagaaksin	protrude stick out
zaagaagnesin	stick out of
zaagaanwii	sprout
zaagaaso	have the sun
zaagaate	become bright out
zaagaateshkaan	sun shine on
zaagaateshkwaa	sun shine on
zaagbagii	come out have
zaagbagii	come out have
zaagbakwesin	be visible by
zaagbiichgan	sense missing
zaagda	out past the
zaagdaabiise	come out 
zaagdaabiishin	come out of
zaagdaabiisin	come out of
zaagdaabte	go out exit
zaagdaakjii	stick out
zaagdaashkaa	go out of
zaagdaashmaa	strike smb out
zaagdaawnidwak	march out parade
zaagdagnaamaa	hit sth an
zaagdagnaandaan	hit sth out
zaagdagoojin	fall out from
zaagdakshin	go outside step
zaagdakweni	stick ones head
zaagdanemaa	get sth an
zaagdanendaan	get sth out
zaagdennewetaa	stick ones tongue
zaagdennewetwaa	stick ones tongue
zaagdenniwegoojin	have ones tongue
zaagdenniwetwaa	stick ones tongue
zaagdinaa	evict smb
zaagdinwaa	eliminate smb in
zaagdoode	crawl out
zaagdoodebtoo	scoot out on
zaagdoodegzi	move out to
zaagdowse	spill out to
zaagewaajma	divulge information
zaagewaak'om	come out of
zaagewe	come into view
zaagewebde	come driving into
zaagewebooza	ice skate into
zaagewebtoo	run out into
zaagewebza	come driving into
zaagewegoode	come into view
zaagewegoojin	come into view
zaagewegwaashkni	jump into view
zaagewekzhiwe	paddle into view
zaageweshmaa	see a sign
zaagewewoode	crawl out into
zaageyaaboode	float out into
zaageyaabooza	float out into
zaageyaan'kweshin	have ones hair
zaageyaatese	appear momentarily on
zaageyaatese	appear momentarily on
zaaggaadeshin	lie with ones
zaaggamo	be half out
zaaggoodaawe	have ones slip
zaaggwiinde	stick out of
zaaggwiinjin	stick out of
zaagiigshimaa	leave sth an
zaagiigsidoon	leave sth sticking
Zaagiinaang	Saginaw Mich
zaagiingweni	show ones face
zaagiingwese	pop ones face
zaagiingweshin	lie with ones
zaagji'aa	bring sth an
zaagji-	out of a
zaagjib'iwe	run out to
zaagjibde	fly out go
zaagjibtoo	run out of
zaagjibza	drive out fly
zaagjigaabwi	go and stand
zaagjiishin	be sticking out
zaagjiishkwesin	stick out of
zaagjiisin	be sticking out
zaagjiitam	go outside
zaagjinaashkawaa	chase smb out
zaagjise	go out come
zaagjiskwaadaan	spit sth out
zaagjiskwaanaa	spit sth an
zaagjitaasa	carry things out
zaagjitoon	bring sth out
zaagjitwaa	bring something out
zaagjiwdamwaa	carry something out
zaagjiwdawaa	carry something out
zaagjiwdoon	carry sth out
zaagjiwebnaa	throw smb or
zaagjiwebnaan	throw sth out
zaagjiwebnige	throw things out
zaagjiwnaa	carry sth an
zaagjiy'iing	outside on the
zaagkamgishin	stick out of
zaagkamgisin	stick out of
zaagkii	plant
zaagkii	sprout from the
zaagkii	sprout from the
zaagkiichgan	plant seedling houseplant
zaagnemaa	have sth an
zaagnendaan	have sth sticking
zaagnikeshin	lie with ones
zaagninjiini	stick ones hand
zaagninjiishin	have ones hand
zaagoonh	monkey
zaagshimaa	leave sth an
zaagsidoon	leave sth sticking
zaagtoon	love sth treasure
zaagwewe	call out from
zaagzi	be stingy
zaagzideshin	lie with ones
zaakam	go to the
zaakmoogamik	bathroom outhouse washroom
zaam	excessively overly too
zaam'o	have too much
zaamaabde	be overripe
zaamaabewzi	be excessively obese
zaamaabkide	be overheated of
zaamaabkiza	be overheated of
zaamaabza	be overripe
zaamaagmandaan	drink too much
zaamaagmide	be too hot
zaamaajma	exaggerate
zaamaakzaan	overcook something in
zaamaakzwaa	overcook sth an
zaamaasa	be out in
zaamaate	be too hot
zaambatoo	overshoot something in
zaambii	be overintoxicated have
zaambiza	overshoot something in
zaamdaabaan'go	overshoot something in
zaamdoon	be indiscreet be
zaamdooni	talk too loud
zaamgaama	be excessively obese
zaamgwaam	oversleep sleep in
zaamgwaamo	oversleep sleep in
zaami-	excessively overly too
zaamiikaan	overindulge in sth
zaamiikwaa	overindulge in sth
zaamkamgizi	overdo something be
zaamkodaan	cut too deeply
zaamkonaa	cut too deeply
zaamna'aan	oversalt sth
zaamna'ge	oversalt things
zaamnaandam	fast too long
zaamnawaa	oversalt sth an
zaamngwaam	sleep in oversleep
zaamngwaamo	sleep in oversleep
zaampidaan	overeat sth and
zaampwaa	overeat sth an
zaamshkine	be too full
zaamshkine	be too full
zaamwebnaa	deal too many
zaamwebnige	deal too many
zaamzekwaadaan	overcook sth
zaamzekwaanaa	overcook sth an
zaamzekwe	overcook things warm
zaasaagdennewese	stick ones tongue
zaasaagkweyaapi	whoop with laughter
zaasaakwe	shout with joy
zaasgan	bacon rind
zaasgan	grease
zaasgokwe	fry food cook
zaat	poplar
zaateshin	go rancid spoil
zaatesin	go rancid spoil
Zaatewang	Saturday
zaaw-	brown orange yellow
zaaw-bmide	butter
zaaw-jiis	carrot
zaaw-zhoon'yaa	gold
zaawaa	be brown be
zaawaabaan	bile
zaawaabgonii	grow orange buds
zaawaabik	brass
zaawaadnimnese	Baltimore oriole
zaawaande	be coloured brown
zaawaanzhe	be yellow of
zaawaanzo	be coloured brown
zaawaaso	be tanned by
zaawaate	be brown from
zaawi-san'goo	fox squirrel
zaawjiizaan	brown sth
zaawjiizwaa	brown sthan
zaawzi	be brown be
zaawzide	have ones feet
zaazaagnagaakzideshin	sit with the
zaazaawenji	have the chills
zaazgokwaadaan	fry sth
zaazgokwaan	frying pan
zaazgokwaanaa	fry sth an
zaaziibweweshkaa	be squeaky squeak
zaaziimskaajgane	
zagdebwe	burdock or thistle
zak'on	cane assistive device
zambidoon	pull sth into
zamwaakbijgan	tripod for a
zasaan	nest
zasaanh	nest
zasaanyke	make a nest
zasgobmish	willow Wk 
zaskwaajmenh	leech blood sucker
zaswemin	chokecherry the berry
zaswemnaatik	chokecherry tree
zaswin	nest
zaswin'ke	make a nest
zebwe	leak air
zebwe	leak air
zebwejiishin	lose air 
zebwejiisin	lose air
zebwen'ge	let out a
zeg'aa	frighten smb scare
zegaabi	see a frightful
zegaabkaadenh	basket with a
zegaabkaadens	penny basket
zegaaddaan	relate a frightening
zegaadeshin	lie with ones
zegaajma	relate a frightening
zegaajmaa	relate a frightening
zegaamdakwe	foresee something frightful
zegaamdam	have a frightening
zegaashi	be scared from
zegaatese	be frightening be
zegaatese	be frightening be
zegaatesjige	show a scary
zegaatkamik	How frightful
zegbidenh	tagalong
zegchige	do something scary
zegdaabaan'go	be frightened by
zegdaabaanaa	give smb a
zegdebwe	burdock or thistle
zeggaadeshin	sprain ones ankle
zegi-zhiyaa	act scared have
zegkamgizi	cause a scare
zegko'am	be afraid of
zegko'go	be afraid of
zegmaa	frighten smb by
zegmand'o	be fearful
zegmin'gizi	be scared silly
zegnaagot	look frightening look
zegnaagzi	look frightening look
zegtaa	cause a fright
zegtaagot	sound scary sound
zegtaagzi	sound scary sound
zegwewe	sound frightful of
zegwewechge	play frightful music
zegwii	sprain ones back
zegshkiinzhgwe	look wildeyed
zegzi	be afraid be
zenbaa	ribbon silk
zenbaanh	ribbon
zenbaawegin	silk cloth
zesaan'gidoon	be driven to
zesesaapi	laugh so hard
zesesmaa	make smb cry
zesgidaaza	be so angry
zewaabiishin	dangle out
zewaabiisin	dangle out
zga'gan	nail
zgaabii	be connected by
zgaabiignaa	hold sth an
zgaabiignaan	hold sth by
zgaabkaan	handle for a
zgaakgan	safety pin
zgaakmii	hang on by
zgaakogan	nail
zgaakw'aan	fasten sth with
zgaakw'igan	nail screw
zgaakwaa	fasten sth an
zgaakwin	pin fastener
zgaan'kwebnaa	pull smbs hair
zgaan'kwes'aa	jerk smb by
zgaan'kweshkwaa	pull smbs hair
zgaandbenaa	hold smb by
zgaanweshkwaa	step on smbs
zgaat	cigar
zgaawganenaa	grab smb by
zgaknaa	put sth an
zgaknaan	put sth away
zgaknige	put things away
zgakshimaa	put sth an
zgaksidoon	put sth away
zgaskwaajmenh	leech bloodsucker
zgaswaa	smoke tobacco smoke
zgaswaadaan	smoke sth eg
zgaswaanaa	smoke sth an
zgataagan	tinder
zgibdoon	connect sth to
zgibjigan	buckle
zgibnaa	connect sth an
zgidebwe	burr
zgidyenaa	grab smb by
zgidyepwaa	bite smb on
zgigaadenaa	grab smb by
zgigaadepnaa	tie smb by
zgigwenaa	grab smb by
zgigwewes'aa	grab smb jerking
zgiigmaa	grab sth an
zgiignaa	grab smb by
zgiigndaan	grab sth by
zgime	mosquito
zgimenh	mosquito
zgin'gan	door knob handle
zgin'kenaa	hold hands with
zginaawish	earthworm
zginnjiinaa	shake hands with
zginnjiipnaa	tie smb by
zginnjiipwaa	bite smb on
zginnjiishkwaa	lean on smbs
zgipdoon	tie sth to
zgipnaa	tie sth an
zgise	brush against in
zgise	brush against in
zgishin	lie with end
zgisin	lie with end
zgizdeshkwaa	sit on smbs
zhaa	go somewhere
zhaabbatoo	run through something
zhaabbide	drive through obstacles
zhaabbii	let water through
zhaabbii'gese	write through of
zhaabbiignaan	strain sth put
zhaabbiignigan	strainer
zhaabbiignige	strain things
zhaabbiza	drive through obstacles
zhaabdaakiiyebza	get through driving
zhaabganaamaa	punch through sth
zhaabganaandaan	punch through sth
zhaabgwaam	sleep through the
zhaabkaagon	be given diarrhea
zhaabkaawzi	get diarrhea have
zhaabkozhwe	paddle through obstacles
zhaabnigaans	sewing needle
zhaabnigan	sewing needle
zhaaboodwewemaa	defeat smb in
zhaaboojbidmawaa	grab something before
zhaaboojnege	beat others out
zhaaboojnemawaa	beat smb out
zhaaboomin	gooseberry
zhaaboomnagaawansh	gooseberry bush
zhaabooskinwaa	beat smb to
zhaabooz	goat
zhaabse	penetrate go through
zhaabshkaan	come through sth
zhaabwaabaawe	have water go
zhaabwaabaawe	have water go
zhaabwaabmaa	see through sth
zhaabwaabndaan	see through sth
zhaabwaakde	burn through be
zhaabwaakza	burn through be
zhaabwaasge	filter through of
zhaabwaate	filter through shine
zhaabwaazhgaa	run through of
zhaabwegaasin	let the wind
zhaabwendaan	know sth through
zhaabwidoon	carry sth through
zhaabwii	pull through an
zhaabwii'aa	rescue smb save
zhaabwiichge	make savings save
zhaabwiig'aan	penetrate sth put
zhaabwiigwaa	penetrate sth an
zhaabwiitoon	save sth from
zhaabwinaa	carry smb through
zhaabza	clean out ones
zhaabzigan	laxative
zhaagde'e	be cowardly
zhaagenjgan	crayfishs claw
zhaageshiinh	crayfish
zhaagnaash	white man
Zhaagnaash	Canadian Englishman
zhaagnaashiikwe	white woman
Zhaagnaashiikwe	Canadian woman Englishwoman
zhaagnaashiima	speak English
zhaagnaashiimtawaa	speak English to
zhaagoodnaa	be superior to
zhaagoodnaage	win a prize
zhaagoodnawaa	beat smb in
zhaagooj'aa	beat smb in
zhaagoojtoon	beat sth overcome
zhaagooskaage	beat others to
zhaagooskaan	outrun sth
zhaagooskmawaa	beat smb to
zhaagooskwaa	outrun smb
zhaagoozkaan	outrun sth
zhaagoozkamaagen	beat others to
zhaagoozkamwaa	beat smb to
zhaagoozkawaa	outrun smb
zhaagwendam	be timid
zhaagwenma	be shy be
zhaamaa	go to smb
zhaamgat	go somewhere
zhaamwaa	go to smb
zhaangching	nine times
zhaangsimdana	ninety
zhaangsoobii'gan	the numeral nine
zhaangswaabik	nine dollars
zhaangswaak	nine hundred
zhaangswi	nine
zhaangwesh	mink
zhaangwesh-weyaan	mink pelt
zhaangweshi	mink
zhaangweshiinh	mink
zhaashaa	be slippery be
zhaashaabiigat	be slippery be
zhaashaabiigzi	be slippery be
zhaashaabkat	be slippery from
zhaashaabkise	slip  of
zhaashaabkise	slip of stone
zhaashaabkishin	slide on stone
zhaashaabkisin	slide on stone
zhaashaabkizi	be slippery from
zhaashaabwaabaawe	be soaked of
zhaashaabwaabaawe	be soaked of
zhaashaagjiishkaan	mash sth with
zhaashaagjiishkwaa	mash sth an
zhaashaagjiiwaa	mash sth an
zhaashaagjii'aan	mash sth
zhaashaagmaa	chew sth an
zhaashaagmakwe	chew gum
zhaashaagndaan	chew sth
zhaashaagneshin	slip in the
zhaashaagnjige	chew
zhaashaakot	be slippery be
zhaashaakse	slide off slip
zhaashaakse	slide off slip
zhaashaakshin	slide slip
zhaashaaksin	slide slip
zhaashaakzi	be slippery be
zhaashaawnibiish	tree swallow
zhaashaawnibiisi	tree swallow
zhaashaawon	eastern bluebird
zhaashdama	be slippery of
zhaashgob	slippery elm
zhaashjiishkweshin	slip in the
zhaashkbijge	have ones tires
zhaashkdiyeshin	slide on ones
zhaashkodyeshin	slip on ones
zhaashmin'gat	be slippery of
zhaashmin'gizi	be slippery of
zhaashzi	be slippery be
zhaatoon	put sth towards
zhaawenjge	be covetous be
zhaawenjgeshki	be a covetous
zhaawenmaa	be envious of
zhaawnibiishens	tree swallow
zhaawno'on	blow from the
zhaawnong	in the south
zhaawshko-bneshiinh	eastern bluebird
zhaawshko-jiis	turnip
zhaawshko-magkiins	species of small
zhaawshko-mnidoons	praying mantis
zhaawshkojiimin	tomato
zhaawshkomnagat	be blue be
zhaawshkomnagzi	be blue be
zhaawshkozi	be blue be
zhaawshkwaa	be blue be
zhaawshkwaagmiingwe	have blue eyes
zhaawshkwaande	be coloured blue
zhaawshkwaanza	be coloured blue
zhaawshkwaanzhe	be green of
zhaawshkwaanzhese	turn green of
zhaawshkzi	the green part
zhaazhaagmikookis	species of small
zhaazhi	already by now
zhaazhwaach	somewhat like
{n}zhag'ay	my skin
zhanda	here
zhashk	muskrat
zhashkgamik	muskrat lodge
zhashki	dirt earth soil
zhashkiiwmin'gat	be covered with
zhashkiiwmin'gizi	be covered with
zhashkiiyaabiigat	be plastered with
zhashkiiyaabiigzi	be plastered with
zhashkoonh	muskrat
zhashkwedoonh	mushroom
zhashkwiki	muddy ground
zhashweyaa	be square
zhaweshk	muskrat spear 
zhazhewendam	reminisce
zhazhiikaaza	make out fare
zhazhweyaa	be square
zhe-dkokii	step backwards
zhe-giiwe	return go back
zhebaa	this past morning
zhebde	back up driving
zhebdoon	turn sth back
zhebjigaaza	be turned back
zhebnaa	turn sth an
zheboye	row
zhebtoo	run backwards
zhebtoose	step backwards involuntarily
zhebwaagan	oar
zhebwaawe	row 
zhebwe	row
zhebwyaagan	oar
zhebye	row
zhebza	back up driving
zhedaabaadaan	drag sth backwards
zhedaabaanaa	drag sth an
zhedbi	sit back
zhegaadenh	American coot
zhegaagom	pinworm roundworm
zhegmaa	roll the price
zhegnaamaa	knock smb back
zhegnaandaan	knock sth back
zhegndaan	roll the price
zhegoojin	fall back
zhegsin	get dull of
zhegwaa	be dull of
zhegwaashkni	jump backwards 
zhekaan	push sth back
zhekwaa	push sth an
zheshkaan	kick sth back
zheshkwaa	kick sth an
zheyaaknaa	open sth an
zheyaaknaan	open sth wide
zheyaakshimaa	open sth an
zheyaaksidaawe	have ones fly
zheyaaksidoon	open sth wide
zheyaaksin	be wide open
zhgaagnaage	win by a
zhgaagnawaa	beat smb by
zhgaagoo	skunk
Zhgaagoong	Chicago Illinois
zhgaagwansh	onion
zhgaagwinsh	onion
zhgaak	skunk
zhgaangwinsh	onion
zhgadendaan	be tired of
zhgadenmaa	be impatient with
zhgajbii'aa	be impatient waiting
zhgajbiitoon	be impatient waiting
zhgajpidaan	tire of eating
zhgajpwaa	tire of eating
zhgajtoo	tire of a
zhgakmigaa	be a depression
zhgashkaandwe	flying squirrel
zhgashkaandwens	whitebreasted nuthatch
zhgashkii	crouch stoop
zhgaztaan	tire of hearing
zhgaztawaa	tire of hearing
zhgingwaam	wet ones bed
zhgiwin	urine
zhgo	just about very
zhi'aa	arrange sth an
zhi'o	form take shape
zhi'oomgat	form take shape
zhi-	as another like
zhi-bmibde	blow by of
zhi-dbishkoo	 just like
zhi-mkooshin	find ones way
zhi-webii	take off running
zhi-yaa	be a problem
zhibdoon	pull sth in
zhibii'aan	draw sth write
zhibii'gaade	be written say
zhibii'gaans	pencil
zhibii'gan	writing
zhibii'ganaatik	pen
zhibii'ganaatik	pencil
zhibii'ge	write
zhibii'getmawaa	write a letter
zhibii'gewin	writing
zhibii'mawaa	write something for
zhibiigaans	pencil
zhibiigewin	writing
zhibiignaatik	pencil pen
zhibiiwaa	draw smb write
zhibnaa	pull sth an
zhichgaadaan	work on sth
zhichgaade	be arranged be
zhichgaanaa	work on sth
zhichgaazo	be arranged be
zhichgan	handicraft
zhichge	do something 
zhidaabaadaan	drag sth in
zhidaabaan'go	ride in a
zhidaabaanaa	drag sth in
zhidyeshin	place ones rear
zhidyetwaa	moon smb stick
zhigaa	dance in a
zhigaabwi	stand facing a
zhigaabwi'aa	make smb stand
zhigaadaan	build a shelter
zhigaanaa	build a shelter
zhigaawin	dance performance way
zhige	build a house
zhigewnini	builder
zhigi	grow a certain
zhigiizhwe	use a certain
zhigiizhwewin	figure of speech
zhigin	grow a certain
zhigmeg	dogfish
zhigni	have a fishtail
{n}zhigon	my fin my
zhigwaa	build a shelter
zhigwek	directly the most
zhii	move to avert
zhiibaabde	go flying through
zhiibaabdetoon	run sth through
zhiibaabiiyaa	have a water
zhiibaabtoo	run through some
zhiibaabza	drive through a
zhiibaabzawaa	drive sth an
zhiibaagaadese	walk through some
zhiibaajwan	flow through
zhiibaangshi	take a nap
zhiibaanoode	crawl through someplace
zhiibaase	shine through
zhiibaawaa	have a hole
zhiibaawaabiignaan	put sth through
zhiibaawaabmaa	look at smb
zhiibaawaabndaan	look at sth
zhiibaawaabnjigan	binoculars telescope
zhiibaawaabnjige	look through binoculars
zhiibaawaakshimaa	put sth an
zhiibaawaaksidoon	put sth through
zhiibaawaamdaan	look at sth
zhiibaawaamjigan	binoculars telescope
zhiibaawaanmat	be drafty
zhiibaawaashi	get a chill
zhiibaawaatesdoon	give sth an
zhiibaawaateshmaa	give smb an
zhiibaawse	walk through a
zhiibendaagzi	be dependable be
zhiibendam	be determined to
zhiibenmo	feel that good
zhiibeyaa	be clear be
zhiibgaadese	have ones leg
zhiibgweni	stretch ones neck
zhiibiigaashi	race at breakneck
zhiibiigbidoon	stretch sth 
zhiibiigbinaa	stretch sth an
zhiibiigniwe	stretch oneself
zhiibnawii	stretch ones arms
zhiibskaasjigaade	
zhiibtam	rebel
zhiibwaayaabjigan	telescope
zhiibwaayaabjignan	binoculars
zhiig'aakjige	clean branches off
zhiig'aaknige	clear land
zhiig'aan'kwe	have thin hair
zhiig'eknaa	prune sth an
zhiig'eknaan	prune sth trim
zhiigaa	widow widower
zhiigaakwe	widow
zhiigaawi	be a widow
zhiigin	cloth fabric
zhiigmewanzh	red maple
zhiignaa	empty sth an
zhiignaan	empty sth 
{n}zhiignaang	my lower back
zhiignamwaa	empty something for
zhiignige	roll a cigarette
zhiigon	grindstone
zhiigoon'ge	sort out things
zhiigoonaa	sort out sth
zhiigoonaan	sort out sth
zhiigoowebnaa	sort out sth
zhiigoowebnaan	sort out sth
zhiigoowebnige	sort out things
zhiigshkaan	empty sth vacate
zhiigshkawaa	empty sth an
zhiinat	be in great
zhiingat	be bothersome be
zhiingbis	boil inflamed swelling
zhiingendaan	dislike sth hate
zhiingenmaa	dislike smb
zhiingis	pest
zhiingoobnemgat	be left behind
zhiingtaan	be annoyed by
zhiingtawaa	be annoyed by
zhiingzi	be bothersome be
zhiini	be the total
zhiishdagan	broom
zhiishiib-kik	kettle teakettle
zhiishiibenh	general word for
zhiishiigdaan	pee on sth
zhiishiigdaapi	wet ones pants
zhiishiigi	pee urinate
zhiishiigmewanzh	soft maple red
zhiishiignaa	pee on smb
zhiishiigshkaagon	be made to
zhiishiingwaam	wet the bed
zhiishiip	general word for
zhiitaa	get ready
zhiitaa'aa	prepare sth an
zhiitaatoon	prepare sth get
zhiitaawshimaa	make sth an
zhiitaawshin	be prepared be
zhiitaawsidoon	make sth ready
zhiitaawsin	be prepared be
zhiiwtaagan	salt
zhiiwtaagnagaa	be frost on
zhiiwtaagnipgozi	taste salty
zhiiwtaagnipgwat	taste salty
zhiiyaasge	be blinding eg
zhijiibaakwe	cook in a
zhijiinaa	hold sth an
zhijiinaan	hold sth in
zhijiiyaa	have a certain
zhijiizi	have a certain
zhijwan	flow in a
zhikdaan	cut sth in
zhikde	be cut in
zhiknaa	cut sth an
zhikzo	be cut in
zhimaagnish	soldier
Zhimaagnishii-giizhgat	be Remembrance Day
zhimaagot	smell a certain
zhimaagzi	smell a certain
zhimaanjge	think theres a
zhin'kaadaan	call sth by
zhin'kaade	be called a
zhin'kaanaa	call smb by
zhin'kaandizo	call oneself a
zhin'kaaza	be called a
zhinaagot	look a certain
zhinaagzi	look a certain
zhinaashkaan	send sth to
zhinaashkamwaa	chase someone to
zhinaashkawaa	send smb to
zhinaazh'igaazo	be sent in
zhinaazhkawaa	send smb to
zhinaazhwaa	send smb to
zhinmaa	have smb as
zhinoo'aan	point to sth
zhinoo'ge	point in a
zhinoo'gemgat	point in a
zhinoo'mawaa	show something to
zhinoowaa	point at smb
zhisdoon	lay sth down
zhise	fly in a
zhise	fly in a
zhishenmaa	bum something off
zhishin	lie in a
zhishmaa	lay sth an
zhisin	be in a
zhisjige	set the table
zhitgweyaa	run in a
zhitmawaa	make something for
zhitoon	arrange sth arrange
zhitwaa	make something for
zhiw	there
zhiwdaan	take sth in
zhiwdoon	carry sth in
zhiweb'aan	shove sth in
zhiweb'amwaa	shove something to
zhiwebat	happen be a
zhiwebwaa	shove sth an
zhiwebzi	have a certain
zhiwi	there
zhiwiidgemaagni	live commonlaw with
zhiwnaa	carry sth an
zhiyaa	feel a certain
zhkaakzi	have a hardon
zhkakmigaa	be damp of
zhkashkwaa	be damp of
zhkendaan	curse sth say
zhkenmaa	curse smb say
zhki-	damp
zhki-giizhgat	be a damp
zhkiigat	be damp of
zhkiigzi	be damp of
zhkimnji'o	feel damp feel
zhkipo	be wet of
zhkisgat	be damp of
zhkisgizi	be damp of
zhmaagan	soldier
zhmaagni-gimaa	jack playing card
zhmaagni-wesiinh	wasp
zhmaagnishii-gimaa	commanding officer
zhmagjiishin	fall into the
zhngibenh	hell diver least
zhngishin	lie down
zhngiwaabkise	rattle
zhngobiins	red pine
zhngomeg	bowfin freshwater fish
zhngop	evergreen
zhngos	weasel
zhngwaak	red pine
zhnikaadaan	call sth by
zhnikaade	be called a
zhnikaanaa	call smb by
zhnikaaza	be called a
zhnikaazwin	name
zhoobaagaashi	bend in the
zhoobaagaasin	bend in the
zhoobaagat	be curved of
zhoobaagbidoon	bend sth bend
zhoobaagbinaa	bend sth an
zhoobaagnaa	bend sth an
zhoobaagnaan	bend sth over
zhoobaagnigan	sled
zhoobaagse	bend 
zhoobaagse	bend
zhoobaagshkaan	bend sth with
zhoobaagshkawaa	bend sth an
zhoobaagzi	be curved of
zhoobaawgan	have a bent
zhoobbidoon	bend sth with
zhoobbinaa	bend sth an
zhoobgaade	be bowlegged have
zhoobshkaa	bend be bent
zhoobshkaa	bend be bent
zhoodaawnini	Jew
zhoomaan'kenh	cent penny
zhoomaan'kenh	cent penny
zhoomaan'kensag	small change
zhoomaan'kiwaabik	copper
zhoomiingweni	smile
zhoomiingwetaa	smile
zhoomiingwetwaa	smile at smb
zhoomin	grape raisin
zhoomnaabii	grape
zhoomnaaboo	wine
zhoomnens	raisin
zhoon'yaawgamik	bank financial institution
zhoonyaa	money
zhoonyaa-taagegamik	casino
zhoonyaakaadaan	make lots of
zhoonyaakaanaa	make lots of
zhoonyaakwaa	make money for
zhoonyaami	have lots of
zhooshkamgaa	be slippery of
zhooshkamgisenh	stone boat flatbottomed
zhooshkbaajgan	sleigh
zhooshkbide	slip and go
zhooshkbiza	slip and go
zhooshkboode	slide off slip
zhooshkbooza	slide off slip
zhooshkdamat	be slippery of
zhooshkdiiyebooza	slide on ones
zhooshkdinaa	be slippery of
zhooshkjiishkweshin	slip in the
zhooshkjiishkweyaa	be slippery of
zhooshkjiishkwigaa	be slippery of
zhooshkjinwe	slide
zhooshkjiwaan	dumpling
zhooshkjiwaanaatik	ski
zhooshkjiwe	go sliding recreationally
zhooshksenh	sleigh
zhooshksens	sled toboggan
zhooshkshimaa	make sth an
zhooshkshin	slip
zhooshkwaa	be slippery be
zhooshkwaabiigat	be very smooth
zhooshkwaabiigzi	be very smooth
zhooshkwaabkat	be very smooth
zhooshkwaabkizi	be very smooth
zhooshkwaade	ice skate
zhooshkwaadewgamik	ice arena
zhooshkwaagnagaa	be slippery of
zhooshkwaakot	be slippery be
zhooshkwaakzi	be slippery be
zhooshkweg'aan	iron sth
zhooshkweg'igan	clothesiron
zhooshkweg'ige	do ironing iron
zhooshkwegnaa	smooth sth an
zhooshkwegnaan	smooth sth out
zhooshkwegwaa	iron sth an
zhooshkzi	be slippery be
zhooshwaabde	have ones teeth
zhoowbii	be slightly drunk
zhoozhoobnakong	in the treetop
zhwaashksenh	sleigh
zhwaashksens	toboggan
zhwegshimaa	spread sth an
zhwegsidoon	spread sth out
zhwendaagzi	receive communion
zhwendaagziichge	give communion
zhwendaan	take pity on
zhwendminaagzi	look pitiful
zhwenjgewin	charity grace
zhwenmaa	be charitable towards
zhweyaakshin	lean against something
zhweyaaksin	lean against something
zhyaaw	straight
zhyaawebde	travel directly travel
zhyaawebtoo	run directly run
zhyaawebza	travel directly travel
zhyaawegat	be straight of
zhyaawegzi	be straight of
zhyaawejaane	have a straight
zhyaawekmigaa	be level of
zhyaawemo	be straight of
zhyaawesdoon	set sth straight
zhyaaweshmaa	set sth an
zhzhoosga'aan	paint sth not
zhzhoosga'ge	paint not in
zhzhoosgawaa	paint sth an
ziibi	river
ziibiikaan	ditch
ziibiins	brook creek stream
ziibiiwenh	brook creek stream
ziibskitoo	cling to life
ziibwaagan	corn stalk
ziibweweshkaa	squeak of floors
ziigaa	wrinkle be wrinkled
ziigaabwe	pour cement for
ziigaashi	gush out pour
ziigaasin	gush out pour
ziigaawngwe	dump a load
ziigbii	overflow
ziigbii	overflow
ziigbiisaa	pour pour down
ziigiigninjiiyaabaawe	have ones hands
ziigiigshkaa	be wrinkled get
ziigiigzideyaabaawe	have ones feet
ziigiingwe	have a wrinkled
ziigmin'gaa	be wrinkled of
ziigmin'gizi	be wrinkled of
ziignaa	pour the contents
ziignaan	pour sth pour
ziignamwaa	pour something for
ziignawaa	administer liquid medicine
ziignemaa	expel sth from
ziignendaan	expel sth from
ziignige	be a bartender
ziignigewnini	bartender  2
ziigniingwaa	pour something on
ziigse	spill
ziigse	spill
ziigwebnaa	spill the contents
ziigwebnaan	spill sth spill
ziigwebse	spill make something
ziigwebse	spill
ziigwebshin	spill something by
ziigwebshkaan	spill sth with
ziigwebshkawaa	spill the contents
ziigwepdaan	spray sth water
ziigwepdawaa	spill something on
ziigwepjige	water things
ziigzi	wrinkle be wrinkled
ziikoobiignaa	drain water from
ziikoobiignaan	drain water from
ziimkaagbii	be hungover have
ziin'kiigmaan	nasal mucus snot
ziin'kiigme	blow ones nose
ziinbidoon	squeeze liquid from
ziinbiigmaa	suck juice out
ziinbiignaa	wring sth an
ziinbiignaan	wring sth out
ziinbiigndaan	suck the juice
ziinbinaa	squeeze liquid from
ziind'aan	wedge rags into
ziind'age	wedge rags into
ziindaakjiishkwaa	squish smb
ziindaaknaa	wedge sth an
ziindaaknaan	wedge sth in
ziindaaknikeshkoonaa	squish smbs arm
ziindaaknikeshkwaa	squish smbs arm
ziindaakninjiishkoonaa	squish smbs hand
ziindaakninjiishkwaa	squish smbs hand
ziindaakshimaa	put sth an
ziindaakshin	be squeezed into
ziindaakshkine	be wedged in
ziindaakshkine	be wedged in
ziindaaksidoon	put sth into
ziindaaksin	be squeezed into
ziinde	sizzle
ziindpizwin	girdle
ziingaak	in the corner
ziingbakweyaa	have a peak
ziingmat	be a corner
ziingniingwe	put eyedrops in
ziinmaa	suck liquid out
ziinnaa	milk sth an
ziinndaan	suck liquid out
ziinnige	do milking milk
ziinshkaan	wear sth tight
ziinshkawaa	wear sth an
ziinskiigme	blow ones nose
ziinskiigmejaane	be snotty nosed
ziinza	sizzle
ziinzwaa	fry sth an
ziitaagan	salt
ziitaagna'aan	salt sth
ziitaagnaaboo	brine salt water
ziitaagnage	salt ones food
ziitaagnawaa	salt sth an
ziitaagni-gookoosh	salt pork
ziitaagnipgot	taste salty
ziitaagnipgozi	taste salty
ziitaagniwan	be salty
ziitaagniwi	be salty
ziiwaaboo	vinegar
ziiwaagmi	be sour of
ziiwaagmide	syrup
ziiwaagmideke	make syrup
ziiwaakgan	have heartburn
ziiwan	be sour
ziiwbak	rhubarb
ziiwmaagot	smell sour
ziiwmaagzi	smell sour
ziiwpogot	taste sour
ziiwpogzi	taste sour
ziiwshin	be sour turn
ziiwsijgan	sourdough starter
ziiwsin	be sour turn
ziiwtaagan	salt
ziiwzi	be sour
ziizbaakdokaan	sugar camp
ziizbaakdoke	make maple sugar
Ziizbaakdoke-giizis	Sugaring Moon March
ziizbaakdoons	candy
ziizbaakdwaaboo	maple sap
ziizbaakdwaapne	have sugar diabetes
ziizbaakot	sugar
ziizbidoon	drool
ziizbidoonengwaam	drool while sleeping
ziizningwaamaa	carry sth an
ziizningwaandaan	carry sth squeezed
zka'aan	light sth set
zka'ge	light things set
zka'mawaa	light something for
zkaabiignaa	plug sth an
zkaabiignaan	plug sth in
zkaabiignigaade	be plugged in
zkaabiignigaaza	be plugged in
zkaabiishin	be plugged in
zkaabiisin	be plugged in
zkapwaagne	light up a
zkawaa	light sth an
zkide	be on fire
zkiza	burn be on
zkizaan	burn sth set
zkizge	burn things set
zko	spit
zkwaadaan	spit on sth
zkwaagan	spit spittle
zkwaajge	spit
zkwaajge-kikoons	spitoon
zkwaanaa	spit on smb
znagaangzhe	have a difficult
znagat	be difficult be
znagbidoon	crush sth with
znagbidoon	massage sth rub
znagbinaa	crush sth an
znagbinaa	massage smb rub
znagendaan	find sth difficult
znagendam	find things difficult
znagenmaa	find smb difficult
znaggaadebnaa	massage smbs leg
znaggaadenaa	massage smbs leg
znaggwiiwenaa	massage smbs neck
znagjiibnaa	massage smb
znagjiinaa	massage smb
znagjiinaan	massage sth
znagjiishkaan	massage sth with
znagjiishkwaa	massage sth an
znagkamgizi	make things difficult
znagmaa	make a difficult
znagnikaade	have a difficult
znagnikaaza	have a difficult
znagnikebnaa	massage smbs arm
znagnikenaa	massage smbs arm
znagtaagot	sound difficult
znagtaagzi	make things sound
znagtoo	have a difficult
znga'oode	hang attached to
znga'ooza	hang attached to
znigjitaa	roll about in
znigsag'igan	scrub brush
zoogpo	snow referring to
zoogponniinh	snowman
zookoobiignaa	drain water from
zookoobiignaan	drain water from
zoongaabewzi	be husky of
zoongaakw'aan	fasten sth securely
zoongaakwaa	fasten sth an
zoongan	be sturdy
zoongde'e	be courageous be
zoongde'eshkwaa	confirm smb
zoonggaabwi	stand firmly
zoonggwaadaan	sew sth so
zoonggwaade	be sewn firmly
zoonggwaanaa	sew sth an
zoonggwaaza	be sewn firmly
zoongkishin	stand firmly of
zoongkisin	stand firmly
zoongnaagot	look strong look
zoongnaagzi	look strong look
zoongnam'aa	be devout
zoongnamaakwii	hang on firmly
zoongngwaam	sleep soundly
zoongngwaamo	sleep soundly
zoongshin	be securely attached
zoongsin	be securely attached
zoongzi	be sturdy
Zoozep-giizhgat	be Wednesday
zwegoojin	fall over with
zzagaa	be dense bush
zzagaan'kwe	have tangled hair
aagwaashkwaa	intercept smb
aaning	some a few
gchi-aawi	be the eldest
aabmiitaw	fight against smb
dnaza	be cooking in
bmase	walk walk by
gegwa	dont
de-mnik	a substantial amount
waawaasa	far a great
baasbidoon	crack sth smash
baasbinaa	crack sth an
baashksin	break
baashkmin'sige	make preserves make
baashkmin'sa'aan	make preserves of
baapaag'ige	knock
baanaabe	mermaid
baabaapi	laugh and laugh
baaba	this this one
Aanmaama	speak German speak
baa-	around about out
baa-yaa	go around go
baabiibaagndam	keep shouting shout
baakaakwenh	chicken hen
baamaadzi	go on a
miini-baashkmin'sigan	blueberry jam blueberry
gbaakwaasin	slam shut be
niizhgamik	two houses
biitoo-gwiwnan	underwear
gwekwendaan	be certain about
dpine	die in a
binoojii	child
binoojiinswi	be an infant
binoojiinywi	be a child
aaboojbizo	fly upside down
baagaakw'igan	black ash splint
aachin'gan	room
beshwinaagot	seem near
niibdegaabwi	stand in line
zhignaawis	worm
wiinjiishkogaa	be muddy outside
damoojige	fish with a
ezgaak	wood tick
bweyaakgwewe	have a sweaty
bweyaaknike	have a sweaty
bweyaakgaade	have a sweaty
bengshkawaa	wear sth an
bengwaasin	dry in a
bengwaashi	dry in a
bengwaashmaa	dry sth an
bengwegwaa	iron sth an
ggwetaanjiisdoon	wear sth jauntily
aaniindagnaa aapji 	My God Ever
bi-zhayaa	come have an
baashkzige	fire a gun
maanaajjiiyaa	be misshapen have
giizhaabndaan	finish watching sth
bengdinaa	knead sth an
bkobiiwebnaan	push sth into
bminaashkaan	chase sth run
btaaksidoon	bump sth into
bzogshkaa	be sticky
bzwaabiishmaa	wind sth an
daatganaabse	glance up look
dbinoosdoon	put sth somewhere
dgoshin	be included with
giibjiiwebnaa	throw smb off
giibjiiwebshkawaa	push smb off
giikginzo	go up in
giijzide	have a sore
giizhoowaa	be warm get
aazhdeyaakbii'ge	sign with a
kawe	first of all
ndendi	be absent temporarily
n'gamo	sing
ngo-dba'aabaan	one mile
niisaandwewebnaan	throw sth downstairs
niizhwegat	be two in
pinii-mnidooshke	tend to potato
kii-bmide	coal oil
taataahaa	holy holy cow
pinaatik	potato plant
giizhgi	be fully grown
giizhgin	be fully grown
gaawiinnjida 	Im sorry ie
zgimekaa	be lots of
baashkaapi	burst out laughing
bgaskjiishin	fall with a
bgaskjiisin	fall with a
naagzowaabmaa	follow smb with
naagzowaabndaan	follow sth with
niizhwewaan'gat	be in two
piitaabkide	be so hot
piitaabkibdoon	set sth an
piitaagmide	be of such
piitaagmi	be of such
piitsagzi	be of such
piitendaagot	be valued to
waawyeg'aan	hew sth round
gnamaa	in case
nishkaa	get up from
wni'aa	what whatshername whatshisname
zhibii'gaaza	be written about
zhi-yaa	be a certain
zhi'o	dress in such
zkizwaa	burn sth an
znagzi	be difficult 
dbenjge	own things be
dtibse	roll rotate
dtibse	roll rotate
{n}shkiinzhik	my eye
shkiinzhgo	have eyes have
mdamoojgan	fishing pole fishing
Daawaa-mnis	Manitoulin Island
Neyaashii-nagmiing	Cape Croker Ontario
Gchi-mnis	Christian Island Ontario
gaasmooni-jiimaan	sailboat
aanzyaanpizo	wear a diaper
bdakigan	dinner fork
biiwaabko-bneshiinh	airplane
nshkaadziwin	anger
ebigoo	ant
waabminaatik	apple tree
paakzowin	apron
gimaawgamig	band office 
giishkaankwezhoonini	male barber
giishkaankwezhookwe	female barber
giishkaankwezhoowgamig	barber shop
naamsag	basement
nbaagni-mnidoosh	bedbug
aamoowgamig	beehive
e-biitewaagmiseg	beer
tataagan	bell
Gzhe-mnidoowmaznagan 	the Christian Bible
Gzhe-mnidoowdikdowinan 	the Christian Bible
doodooshmnjimnigan	bra
ngaawebishkigan	brakes
zoongde'ewin	bravery
ggizhebaa-wiisniwin	breakfast
giiwnaadendmowin	nervous breakdown
gjipzonaabik	belt buckle
skanjiins	berry buds
shkode-bzhiki	buffalo
naabe-bzhiki	bull
bzaan	burr
sanjgowin	cache
waashkobizid	a general word
gbeshwin	camp camping
waashkabang	general word for
dkonwewdaabaan	police car
mzin'igaans	playing card
mookdaasoownini	male carver male
mookdaasoowkwe	female carver female
gweji-bkinaagewgamig	casino
gweji-zhoonyaakewgamig	casino
ngwakaanki	cemetery
nmadbiwaagan	chair
baagaakwenwgamig	chicken coop hen
jidmoo	chipmunk
eshkan	chisel ice chisel
e-debweyendang	Christian
Mnidoo-niigi-giizhgad	Christmas day
zgaswaajgaans	cigarette
e-waawyeyaag	circle
gchi-oodena	city big city
waabaabgan	white clay white
mkade-mskodiisminaaboo	coffee
coffeewaaboo	coffee
zhoon'yaans	money in the
nzikwe'igan	comb
mskwaabik	copper
gaagiigdoownini	male councillor male
gaagiidoowkwe	female councillor female
dbaaknigewgamig	courthouse court building
dkonweniniidaabaan	police car
waabshkoon'giziinh	police car
Gchi-nam'e-mzin'igan	the Christian Bible
moozhwenini	male barber
moozhweniniikwe	female barber
wiidgemaagning	marriage
Wemtigoozhiimang	the French language
bzhikiwayaan	cowhide
shaageshiinh	crab crayfish
mshkiigonini	male Cree person
mshkiigokwe	female Cree person
mkade-pakne	cricket
biiwnjigan	crumb crumbs
mnikwegan	cup
pisjigan	cushion
waawaashkeshi-wiiyaas	venison
wiibdaa-mshkikiiwnini	dentist
ziisbaakwad-naapine	be diabetic have
zhaabkaawziwin	diarrhea
shkwaa-bmaadzi	die be dead
shkwaa-nese	die be dead
znagziwin	difficulty
naapnewin	disease illness
daalii	doll
niizhingmdaaswaak 	two thousand
nsingmdaaswaak 	three thousand
niiwingmdaaswaak 	four thousand
bgoneyaabka'ge	drill into rock
{n}diniigan	my shoulder blade
dbadoonh	button
shka'iinaagot	look new look
zgimenh-mshkiki	mosquito repellant insect
zhaagooskmaagen	beat others to
biindge-	used to indicate
ndaagnaandaan	stir sth vigorously
ndaagnaamaa	stir sth an
shka'iinaagzi	look new look
gete'iinaagot	look old
gete'iinaagzi	look old
bbaa-yaa	be around to
gkendmaawizi	be shrewd
aadaakw'age	lock things esp
mskwaadesi	turtle
dbasenjgaaza	be thought little
giishpnajgaade	be bought be
giishpnajgaaza	be bought be
aanawii-	even though despite
wiiji-skoonwimaa	go to school
nawachngoji 	various places here
bkaanngoji 	elsewhere somewhere else
kinangoji 	all over the
gchi-gaaming	overseas abroad esp
bootaagen	grind something up
bootaagaanaa	mill sth an
bootaagaadaan	mill sth grind
gidaakiiwe	go uphill climb
wenpanzh	handy easy
aagwi-	behind located behind
aagwigmik	behind the house
aagwiyiing	behind it behind
daa-gii-	would would have
npaaji-	mistakenly incorrectly
gomaago 	soso in answer
gchitwaa-nini	a courteous wellmannered
aagwishmaa	put sth an
aagwisdoon	put sth behind
mno-mnik	a good amount
mno-nish	good thing
shkwaa-naawkwe	be the afternoon
gchi-	very  2
zhaabwiimgat	survive endure persist
Nishnaabe-bmaadziwin	Nishnaabe culture Ojibwe
{n}tawag	my ear
tawgaapne	have an ear
giishktawge	have an ear
bnaaznaagzi	have ones looks
giishktawgepwaa	bite smbs ear
memdaasookam	be ten in
naangzhe	work in such
mkade'aa	make smb fast
niibdegaabwi'aa	stand smb up
baabii'waa	wait for smb
baapnendam	be glad feel
biidkozhwe	arrive by boat
bgonegnaanjgaade	have holes due
bgonegnaanjgaaza	have holes due
bgonegdigweshkaa	have holes in
bgonegdigweshkaa	have holes in
bi-dgoshnoomgat	happen come to
biigdaabaaneshkaa	have ones car
biijgaaza	be brought
biijgaade	be brought
biindgeb'iwe	flee indoors flee
bkwaakninjiitwaa	make a fist
sidwendam	be sad be
debaabndakwet	weatherman weather forecaster
debaakniget	planner decision maker
dkam'o	cross over by
gezbin'gaaza	be stored away
go	indeed  2
gwa	be hanged be
aawdaasa	haul something haul
ge-	the changed form
waa-	the changed form
aaniipiish	where primarily interrogative
mgishin	fall fall down
miiiidik 	apparently so prompted
minjiidik 	I dont know
manjiidik 	at any moment
gaa-	the changed form
bebaa-	the changed form
aahaaw 	okay
aabdaagmandaan	drink sth continuously
aabdik	certainly for sure
e-	 ihistorically the
aaboojganese	tumble head over
aabta-	half halfway mid
aabta-bboon	half a year
aabtaa-dbik	midnight the evening
aabtawgaamiwan	be a halfway
aabtawzi	be of mixedblood
niizh-zhinin	one quarter a
niizh-zhining	a quarter coin
aabtaya'ii	the centre of
aadaabkaa	be a crevice
aagnwetam	disagree deny
aagwiitoosdoon	put sth inside
aandoodegzi	move ones household
aanjibii'waa	repaint sth an
aanjgozi	move ones residence
aanwak	anyhow
aaw	well oh come
aayaa	please
aazhbikkokaa	be rocky cliffs
ambe	come on well
baak'aakwaan	chicken
baamaapii	later on
baapaashkzwaa	shoot smb shoot
baashkmin'saan	stew sth cook
baatiindoon	have lots of
Baawtigoong	Sault Ste Marie
Baawting	Sault Ste Marie
babiijin	always
bagoowyaan	cloth bolt of
bbaa-yaan	take sth around
bbaayaa	see bbaayaa
bbaabtoo	run around
bbaamaashi	sail around
bbaamaazhgaame	walk along the
bbagwayaanenh	cloth fabric
bbazgwii	rise to a
bboon	year winter
bboonong	last winter 
wasi-	used with a
bchinaajgaaza	be struck by
bdakaaksidoon	stick sth in
bebaamaadzit	traveller
bebesho	near to each
bnabekaa 	wait hang on
bemaadzit	person human being
beshaabiigmo	form a slit
bezhgoogzhii-pabwin	horsesaddle
miinwaabezhik 	the other one
bgami-	become commence arrive
bgaskiigndibe'ge	knock unspecified people
bgidaakwii	let arrows fly
bgidendwak	hold funerals hold
bgidnamwaa	allow something to
bgojiing	in the wilds
bi-yaamgat	come be on
biibiins	baby
biidaaban	become dawn get
biidaasin	sail here come
biidaashi	sail here come
biidaasmishkaa	paddle here come
biimskwaabka'gewnini	engineer
biindaabkiwebnigaade	be put in
biindaagnawaa	have sth an
biin'idza	clean oneself
biinjiiy'ii	inside inside of
biistaagan	bubble
biitoogwaan	underwear panties
biiwaan'gwaabik	flint stone
biiwaanak	flint pieces of
biiwan	be in fine
biiwkonaa	cut sth an
bkobii	go into water
bkodnaa	be hilly be
bkojbidoon	pull sth loose
bkon'ge	skin things skin
bkwaabkaa	be a steep
bkwezhgaans	small loaf of
bkwezhgan'ke	make bread
bmaaj'idza	provide for oneself
bmaakdabwak	sit in a
bmaangsowak	lie in a
bmama	the road trail
bmasnii'aa	throw rocks at
bmi-yaa	come by come
bmib'idwak	run along in
bmibiisaa	a rainstorm comes
bmin'zha'ge	chase things
bmin'zhawaa	chase smb
bmizi	go along go
bmiwzhiwe-daabaan	bus
bngiishewgizi	be few in
bngwaaboo	lye
bninaan	drop sth let
boodaakwen	put sth an
boodaakwewebnaa	throw sth an
boodwaan	fire in a
bookshin	break into pieces
booksin	break into pieces
bootaage	grind things up
boozwebnaan	throw sth onto
boozwebnaa	throw sth an
bmodwak	shoot each other
bskaab'iwe	turn back in
bskaabii-	go back return
bzigndinaa	make smb get
bzignjise	jump to ones
da-	hishertheir
da-	shal will should
daapnigaaza	be seized be
dab'agiiswaanin	have for a
dbaajmataadwak	tell each other
dbikaa	be dark be
noongodbikak 	tonight
dbinjiibzowin	ring for the
dbinwewziwin	piece of property
dchiwak	be a certain
dching	times repetitions
ddaakzidewak	have short feet
ddadbaajmotaadwak	engage in lively
ddibew	bank of a
debsemgat	come to pass
debshkine	fit be able
dede-	enough
dengwyaa	have a face
desaabkaa	be a flat
dezhii	have time to
dgomgat	exist naturally in
dgwaagong	last fall last
dgwaagshi	spend fall in
di	have happen to
dik	caribou
dikmegshii-ziibiing	White Fish River
disaa	come to smb
ditaan	come to sth
dite	be ripe
dkaagmisin	cool off of
dkibgoons	wild mint
dkobnidza	tie something to
dkon'gaaza	be arrested
dkondmawaa	bite something for
doo-	ithe third person
doopwaans	a small table
dso-	a certain number
dsosgoons	so many thousands
dswaak	so many hundreds
dswewaan'gat	be such number
dswewaan'gizi	be a certain
dtaa	dwell for some
dwa	kind sort
dwa	kind sort
dzhigaa	dance in a
niigi	be born come
eko-niizhing	the second time
eko-nsing	the third time
eko-niiwing	the fourth time
bebezhig	one by one
neniizh	two by two
nenswi	three by three
neniiwin	four by four
nenaanan	five by five
nen'godwaaswi	six by six
eko-naaning	the fifth time
eko-n'godwaaching	the sixth time
eko-niizhwaaching	the seventh time
eko-nswaaching	the eighth time
eko-zhaangching	the ninth time
eko-mdaaching	the tenth time
nenaanwaabik	five dollars each
ekwaabiinh	policeman guard scout
Emtigoozhii-zhiibiing	French River Ontario
Mbingo!	Bingo
endso-	each every
endzhi-waabnda'ding	fair public exhibition
endso-niibing	every summer each
gaagaagwizhaandak	hemlock
gaagiigda	talk speak converse
waab-gaagoo	white porcupine
gaakiishkaa	be rectangular be
gaanzkamii	run off hurry
gaapbidoon	crumble sth with
gaasdema	be a narrow
gaasin	be small
gaawiin	no not
gaazkwewetoo	make a scratching
gba'igaade	be closed up
gbaakw'igaade	be shut be
gbaashmaa	boil sth an
gbadoons	button
bgadoons	button
gbe-dgwaagi	all fall all
piichi-gbey'iing	for how long
gbwanaamza	be suffocated
gchay'aa	an adult a
gchay'aawi	be an adult
gchi-daawe'gamik	Hudson Bay Company
gchi-daawewnini	Hudson Bay Company
gchi-daawewniniikaang	a Hudson Bay
gchi-gimaa	king
gchi-gimaakwe	queen
gchi-gimaakwens	princess
gchi-gindaaswin	formal account formal
mno-gwiiwzenswi	be a good
gchi-gwiiwzenswi	be a big
gchi-kwe	a grown woman
gchi-miikna	highway major road
Gchi-mookmaani-shkinwe	young white American
Gchi-mookmaani-zhmaagnish	American soldier
Gchi-mookmaanens	young white American
Gchi-mookmaanii-gimaa	American leader esp
Gchi-mookmaanii-kiwewin	American flag
mskwaabiimish	red willow
gchi-nendam	be glad 
Gchi-nimwaaning	Fox Island Michigan
Nimwaanensing	Beaver Island Michigan
gchi-nini	a grown man
Gchi-wesii	any of a
gchi-zhashkwedo	lifebelt
Gchigmiing	Lake Michigan
gchigmi	a great lake
gdizgewanzh	a certain medicinal
ge-	on the one
gedgan'gekwak	Spotted Bark a
kinagegoo 	everything  2
gaawii gegoo 	nothing
Gete-oodenaangmnis 	Mackinac Island Michigan
ggi	not to mention
ggwejkandiwin	a race a
ggwezkaan	test sth with
gidaabik	on a mountain
gidbak	on the roof
gii'nwaaknwi	fighting arrow war
gii-	would could
giigdooniniikwe	female councillor female
giigoonykewnini	fisherman
giinaamgat	be sharp
giikiishkaa	be rectangular be
giikiishkaabkat	be in the
giikji	be cold feel
giimoozaabi	peek out
giin'kokdaan	sharpen sth to
giinnangna	now it turns
giishkkojgen	cut sth an
giishkkodmawaa	cut something off
giishknaanjgaaza	be cut suffer
giishktawgebwaa	bite of smbs
giiwekwaakw'ige	blaze a trail
giiwenaazhwaa	drive smb home
giiwewdamwaa	bring something home
giiwewjigaaza	be brought back
giiwtaashkaan	walk around sth
giizhaa	already beforehand
giizhbagaa	leaves come out
noongogiizhgak 	today be today
giizhkan'gek	cedar bark
giizhki-mkak	cedar chest
giizhooshmaa	wrap smb up
gijya'ii	on top of
gijya'iing	on top of
gmaamnik 	a moderate amount
gikwi'aa	see the tracks
gimaakwens	princess
gitziimi	have as a
gitziimmaa	have smb as
nikza	be cut in
giza	be a day
gjiishpin	if
gjiknayezwaa	make sth an
gjiknayezgaaza	be made into
gjindaawaakwigaade	be driven into
gkinoo'maage	teach do teaching
gkinwaachigan	mark guiding mark
gkinwaachigen	mark something put
gkizhe	charcoal piece of
gmaa	of considerable size
gmoodshki	be thievish be
gnaajwaabminaagot	be fine looking
gnabaasin	capsize because of
gnage	in the least
gego	dont
gaagnage 	not at all
gegognage 	do not by
gniinaa	did I not
gnjib'iwe	flee get away
gnjibtwaadaan	flee with sth
gnoondiwak	talk with each
gnwaanwe	have a long
gnzaabiimgat	sink eg a
goojgaaza	be hanged be
gow	these an
gowaans	little garment childs
gowin	garment item of
gpibtoo	run inland run
gshkawaa	cut sth an
gshkawan	be a thick
gsinaamgat	be cold weather
gtakmigaang	to or on
gtigewnini	farmer planter
gtigen	plant something an
getzit	elderly person old
gwaa'go	wash ashore
gwaayaadgaa	swim to shore
gwaayaadge	swim to shore
gwekjiwan	change direction of
gwetaa	lie down lie
gwiidsijgan	rack platform
gwiinwi-nendam	not know what
{nda}gwin	item of clothing
gwisemgat	fall over keel
gwisi	have as a
gyakwaakzi	be straight stand
maagye…maa gye 	or eitheror
gyakwaabza	speed straight to
gzhaatemgat	be hot from
gzhaawngide	be hot of
gzhidemgat	be hot of
gzi	move camp
gziibiig'ignike	make soap
gziibiignigaaza	be washed get
gziishin	scrape against
iwpii 	then at that
jaagnaan	use sth up
jaagnaa	use sth an
jibwaa	before at a
ji-bwaa-	before
Jibwe-kwe	an Ojibwe woman
Jibwe-nwewin	the Ojibwe language
jiibaakwegamik	kitchen
jiichiibnaa	poke smb
jiigaajwan	by a stream
kaadenaa	braid sth an
kaadenaan	braid sth
Kakjiish-giizhgat	Groundhog Day
kawaabndamaaza	watch out for
kewesh	for now at
kiins	plot of land
knoomaadwak	teach each other
kose	extend to such
kwaandwebtoo	run up stairs
kwashkaa	come up so
kwidaandwe	climb to the
maa	there emphatic
maadaan'gidoon	starting talking start
maadse	start
nii-	A contraction of
maajii'aa	take smb away
maajiimgat	move stir of
maajiinaazh'waa	send smb away
maajiinaazhkawaa	send smb to
maajiishkaamgat	be established begin
maaknanaa	maim smb wound
Maamii	Miami Indian Maumee
maamiigbiza	run fast
jaagaakzame	run out of
ke-	do something first
maamwizi	be together act
maanendiwak	compete against each
maawndoo-yaawak	be together live
maawndoodaabaanaawak	drag an things
maawndoon	collect sth up
maawndoopdoon	bundle sth together
maawndowaaknaa	gather up sth
maawnzomaa	call smb together
maawnzondwak	be in a
maazhmaagzi	smell bad
man'so	be scared be
mboomgo	mount a horse
mchaamgat	be big get
mchi-	bare plain in
mdaamnashk	corn husk
mdaasgon'gat	be ten days
aanjbii'aan	edit sth revise
niiwo-bboon	four years ago
late-wi	be late
mdaaswishi bezhik 	eleven
mdaaswishi niish 	twelve
mdaaswishi nswi 	thirteen
mdaaswishi niiwin 	fourteen
mdaaswishi naanan 	fifteen
mdaaswishi ngodwaaswi 	sixteen
mdaaswishi niizhwaaswi 	seventeen
mdaaswishi nshwaaswi 	eighteen
mdaaswishi zhaangswi 	nineteen
niishtanashi bezhik 	twentyone
mdaaswi-shi-bezhiknso-bboon 	eleven years
mdaaswishi bezhik nching 	eleven times
mdaaso-shi-niizh-dsobboon'gizi	be twelve years
mdaasoonak	ten boats ten
niizhwaachwak	be seven in
nshwaachwak	be eight in
zhaangchiwak	be nine in
mdaachwak	be ten in
mdaaswishi bezhik nchiwak 	be eleven in
niizho-dbagne	be two oclock
nso-dbagne	be three oclock
niiwo-dbagne	be four oclock
naana-dbagne	be five oclock
ngodwaaso-dbagne	be six oclock
niizho-dbagiiswaan	two hours
giizis	a months time
mdaaswaakshi nshwaaswaak miinwaa mdaaswi shi niish 	1812 the year
mbus	bus
gnige	at least 
miigo aanwi 	coming along doing
aaniishnaa 	how are things
miina gegeti? 	is that right
miina wi? 	oh is that
miigsha 	thats for sure
aagaawii! 	no way contradicting
gaawiiwii ge gnaa 	not all that
gaago naa gnige 	not in the
gaawiigo aapji gegoo 	nothing much not
gaawiigo gegoo 	nothing
nahaaw	okay assent
miigo mbe 	right now
miigo oodi 	right there
miigo genii 	same here me
miisa nishing 	thats good
miigo mno-pii 	thats a good
miieta mnik kewesh 	thats it for
gegiinwaa	you pl too
minjgo pii 	at any moment
gaaswii go 	butnot
ewaanji-	the most to
kinangoji 	everywhere all over
maamnik	for some time
maanpiinji 	from here
zhiwinji 	from there
aapiichiin	from time to
niibnong	last summer
menookmik	last spring when
nongoggizhep 	this morning of
gaago genii 	me neither not
gaago gegii 	you neither not
gaago gewii 	her or him
gaago geniinwi 	us exc either
gaago gegiinwi 	us inc neither
gaago gegiinwaa 	you pl neither
gaago gewiinwaa 	them an neither
miinwaapii 	next time the
gaawiigegoo 	no inanimate thing
gaawiiwiya 	nobody  2
mbe	right now immediately
gaawiingoji 	nowhere not anywhere
miinwaangoding 	once again
wabezhik 	that other one
wibezhik 	that other one
maababezhik 	this other one
maandabezhik 	this other one
baashji-	over beyond a
ngodingpii 	sometime
miiwa 	thats what an
miiwi 	thats what in
miiwi pii 	thats when
miioodi 	thats where
mbacon	bacon
mekobmasenh	bearwalker
Giibiingwe-Ziibiing	Blind River Ontario
Gwii-giigiing	Canada
ndesk	desk
mzinniins	figurine
zaazgokwaan	frying pan
Gtigaan-ziibiing	Garden River Ontario
Poshkdinong	Gore Bay Ontario
Zhaabdiis	Jack
mdewi	perform the Midewiwin
mdoodoo-sin	stone used in
megyaakwaa	in the woods
meko-bmaset	bearwalker witch
memdaasookmook	be ten in
meskwaanzo	vermilion
miigaadim	be a war
Endroo	Andrew
miigis	bead sacred shell
miigwaans	feather
miigwan	feather
miikaans	path
miikkamgat	be a good
miikshkooza	be wounded from
Zaben	Isabelle
Zhaabdiis	John
Zoosep	Joseph
Ziibaawnaaning	Kilarney Ontario
Wewebjiwang	Little Current Ontario
Mnidoowaaning	Manitowaaning Ontario
Maagniit	Margaret
Maata	Martha
Maanii	Mary
MaanyAan	Mary Ann
Miishen	Michael
Shkakmigkwe	Mother Earth
Kichi-kabekong	Niagara Falls
Waasaaksing	Parry Island Ontario
eshkniigit	young person youth
eshkniigaanh	young person youth
Biiyen	Peter
mzinaabka'gan	petroglyph rock painting
mzinaazwin	photograph photo
epapgijget	baseball pitcher
pie	pie
pizza	pizza
taadwin	playing card
powwow	powwow
enji-wiiknding	reception eg wedding
naagdoobii'gan	road sign
Sgamok	Sagamok Ontario
Baagting	Sault Ste Marie
zhibiigeniniikwe	secretary female
taaswaans	shelf for storage
mtigoons	bush shrub plant
n'gamoonini	singer male
n'gamooniniikwe	singer female
zhooshkwaadenini	skater male
zhooshkwaadeniniikwe	skater female
Etyen	Steven
debaajmat	storyteller
Debenh	David
eskoonwit	student
N'Swakamok	Sudbury Ontario
niibiishaaboo-naagaans	teacup
Tanens	Theresa
Tamaa	Thomas
Gchi-gwaamwining	Tobermory Ontario
tametoonh	tomato
truck	truck
truck	truckload
Waabgonoojiinaang	Wallaceburg Ontario
Mchigiing	West Bay Ontario
Wiikwemkoong	Wikwemikong Ontario
meko-bmasenh	bearwalker witch
miin'kaa	be an abundance
mskomnikaa	be an abundance
dewmin'kaa	be lots of
bmaadziimgat	be alive live
niiskzi	be annoying
niiskat	be annoying
maadaawgenmo	be apprehensive
giikmanninjii	feel tingling in
maanaadaanza	be an ugly
maanaadaande	be an ugly
zegaanza	be a frightful
zegaande	be a frightful
zegpogzi	taste awful taste
zegpogot	taste awful taste
maanaaji-zhiwebat	be bad weather
mbijiizge	bake bread make
mnidoomnenske	do beadwork do
bookwaawganeshin	break ones back
mnidoons'kaa	be lots of
btaakndibeshin	 bump ones
mnwaakza	burn nicely burn
mnwaakde	burn nicely burn
bskaabi-giigda	call back return
mookdaasooniniikwe	female carpenter
dimnege	catches up overtakes
znagtaa	cause difficulties for
bgashknaabde	have a cavity
maanenjge	challenge compete
aandaanza	change colour become
aandaande	change colour become
wenpan'giza	be cheap be
wenpan'ginde	be cheap be
ndagkenjge	check things out
jiishaagnegaade	be cleared of
baashkdaakwii	climb over a
niiskaangza	be messy clutter
niiskaangdaasa	clutter things up
dkiigzi	be cold of
dkiigat	be cold of
dkaasin	be a cold
mnwaanza	be coloured nicely
mnwaande	be coloured nicely
bi-giiwe	come back home
ekwaase	come to an
shkwaase	come to an
baapzhinaagot	look comical
nishnaabewzekwe	cook Indianstyle
ginde	be counted 
mji-giigda	curse swear
zegendaagzi	be dangerous
zegendaagot	be dangerous of
dbikte	be dark be
mshagiishkbikat	be a very
dbikaanza	be dark in
dbikaande	be dark in
mkadewzhe	be darkskinned
zegaachge	decorate
gnwiindgwaanh	be deep of
kwiindgwaanh	be a certain
getnaamendam	be determined be
bmaaknige	dictate
aagnetaadwak	disagree with each
naagaazi	look forward to
gaago naa gegoo 	its no big
miigo wi 	thats all right
miinkiige	catch ones balance
Mshi-Gekek	Roughlegged Hawk the
Miishgondaagan	Bearded Throat the
Miigwaans	Little Feather the
bejbooza	iceskate slowly be
ggwetaanbooza	iceskate quickly be
zhebooza	ice skate backwards
baabiimskobooza	ice skate in
mmiiznibooza	be intricately carved
mmiizniboode	be intricately carved
giiwse-nini	hunter
pagnaa	throw sth an
aabdaangde	always be cluttered
aabdaangza	always lie around
aaboodaangde	be terriby messy
aaboodaaktaa	do a somersault
aaboodaangdaaso	make a terrible
aaboojbijge	turn things inside
aaboojdakiishin	be positioned vertically
aaboojdakiitaa	do a handstand
aaboojganegwaashkni	do a somersault
aabshkaa	unravel get unravelled
aabskwaabiignaan	uncoil sth
aabtawdaaki	halfway up the
aabtawkana	halfway point on
aabtoogoodoon	hang sth halfway
aadaaboode	get snagged while
aadaakshkowaa	bar smbs way
aadsemgat	get snagged
aagwiitooshmaa	put sth an
aagwiitoowegshimaa	use sth an
aagwiitoowegsidoon	use sth as
aagwiitoo’ooza	have a passenger
aajkinaan	divide st a
aakwaakdade	be brittle be
aakwaakdazo	be brittle be
aakwaaznaagzi	look stern 
aakwendaagzi	seem tough
aandaabkin’ge	change gears
aandaabkisjige	change gears
aandaatesjige	change the TV
giibaadaatese	be stupid be
aangzhe’aa	hire smb
Aaniigo naan! 	You must be
Aaniishgo naa aapji?! 	My God Ever
aanjgiise	menstruate have ones
aanjgoodoon	hang sth elsewhere
aanjgoonaa	hang sth an
aanjnaashkawaa	herd sth an
aanjpinaawsa	change a babys
aan’keshmaa	add sth an
aan’kese	replace someone
aan’kesdoon	add sth as
aan’kogneyaap	chain
aanmaajma	tell of great
giiwekzhiwe	travel home by
aanmaajmaa	tell of smbs
aanmaajmatwaa	tell smb of
aanmaatese	be shown in
aanmaatese	lightning flashes furiously
aanmaatesjige	televise a show
aanminwaa	trounce smb in
aannawaa	wound sth an
aanoodaasa	have the sun
aanoodjiiyaasa	have the sun
aanoodmaa	inflict terrible bites
aanooj’aa	pester smb terribly
aanoojiikwaa	pester smb terribly
aanoozmaa	pester smb terribly
aansaabwaajge	dilute
aanzwekwaa	miss smb by
aanzwewendam	be readily confused
aapda’aage	be played out
aapda’aagen	lose all ones
aapdaamkagneshkaa	have ones jaw
aapdagnaamaa	beat smb to
aapdaabko’oodoon	knot sth securely
aasmadin	against the hillside
aasmisak	wall
aasmisak	against the wall
aaspidyepjigan	strap that goes
aaswaakjiidenh	a type of
aaswaakse	fall against something
wiisgidnmaangneshin	hurt ones shoulder
aaswaakse	fall against something
aaswaaknamaakwiise	fall against something
aaswaakogan	blaze on a
aaswaakogan	brace giving structural
bgoneshkooza	have a hole
bgoneshkoode	have a hole
aaswaakoge	blaze trees
aaswaakoge	brace something to
aaswaakogen	use sth to
aaswaakwaa	brace sth an
aaswaakwaan	brace sth so
aatebgaa	leaves fade leaves
aatebii	sober up
aatebiishin	sober up
aatebiisin	go flat lose
aawaandbi	move from seat
aawaatese	go on and
aawaazdeshin	lie on ones
aawsaadzi	be crazy MCh
aazhdwedamshki	be quarrelsome argumentative
aazhdewdamshki	be quarrelsome argumentative
aazhgidwebnaa	flip sth an
aazhgidwebnaan	flip sth forcefully
aazhgijwebnaa	flip sth an
aazhgijwebnaan	flip sth forcefully
aazhgijiitaa	turn onto ones
aazhigijiitwaa	
aazhoodaaki	on the other
aazhoozdeshin	lie with ones
aazhwewzi	have an omen
-ba	suffix added to
-ban	suffix added to
baabaagjiiwaa	pound sth an
baabgokdaan	cut sth loose
baabgoknaa	cut sth an
baabiidzidegoojin	have ones soles
baabiijnakshin	come along head
baabiiyeyaashi	be small amounts
baabiiyeyaasin	be small amounts
baabkide	be warm be
baabkiza	be warm be
bmibzoo’aa	run sth an
shpaabkibdoon	turn heat setting
baabkizaan	warm up sth
baabkizwaa	warm up sth
baabsaakmajiishkaan	find that sth
baagaaksa’aa	slam sth an
baagaaksatoon	slam sth
baagaakse	knock against something
baagmidemgad	be warm liquids
baagmizekwe	warm up a
baakaakzhige	open up canned
baakaan’kot	clouds open up
baakdaakdabi	be stuck once
baakdaamkagnebnaa	force smbs jaws
baakdenmaa	become permanently biased
baakdonebnaa	force smbs mouth
baakgoojge	open curtains or
baakshin	be open lie
baaksin	be open lie
baakwaan	fruit cluster of
baakzhige	open up canned
baamaadgaazo	wade
baapaagbiig’ige	wash clothes by
baapaagbiigwaa	beat sth an
baapaagjii’aan	pound sth
baapaagjiiwaa	pound sth an
baapaagndibegnaamaa	pound smb on
baagndibeshmaa	pound smbs head
baapaagndibewaa	pound smb on
baapaagwaa	be shallows be
baapaashkjiide	crackle as its
baapaashkjiiza	crackle as its
baapaashkaakdin	trees make cracking
baapaashkaakji	tree make cracking
baapaashkwewe	make a crackling
baapaawganewaa	give smb backslaps
baapaawnige	run out of
baapiiwdaawen	sell out all
baapnaaknige	make grand plans
baapoodaajge	puff from exertion
baasdoondneshin	fracture ones heel
baasgishkaa	crack wood
baashjikaanaa	overtake smb pass
baashjikaazhwe	overtake people pass
baashjizhaaza	overshoot the toilet
baashkaakdin	crack open from
baashkaakji	crack open from
baashkaakjin	make a cracking
baashkjii’gan	nutcracker
baashkjiishkaan	burst sth with
baashkjiishkwaa	burst sth an
baashkjiiyaashi	burst explode
baashkjiiyaasin	burst explode
baashzaabi	look over the
baataa-gwaagon	be rusted stuck
baataab'iwe	be cornered somewhere
baataaboowe	be cornered somewhere
baataadbi	be stuck in
baataagnat	be rusted stuck
baataanaashkawaa	chase smb into
baataayens	burr sticky informal
baatiinweyaan’gizi	be many types
baatko’gan	massager made of
baazgo’aan	scratch sth with
baazgogaadejin	scratch hurting ones
baazgogaadeshin	scratch ones leg
baazgogaadeshkwaa	scratch smb on
baazgognaamaa	scratch smb by
baazgnaandaan	scratch sth by
baazgojiibnaa	scratch wounding smb
baazgosdoon	scratch sth by
baazgoshmaa	scratch sth an
baazgoshkaan	scratch sth with
baazgoshkwaa	scratch smb with
baazgowaa	scratch sth an
babjiiyaasa	warm oneself in
bagweyaanegmik	tent
bbaagmaanmat	be gusts of
bbaamdaabii	go about pulling
bbaa-ndashkwe	look for medicinal
bbaaskitawgese	have ones ears
bbaatka’gan	massager made of
bbaatka’ge	quilt hand sew
bbaatkitawgese	ones ears perk
bbaatkitawgetaa	perk ones ears
bbangnaabse	blink ones eyes
bbaznganaabse	blink ones eyes
bbasngwaabse	blink ones eyes
bbooni-	winter type type
bbooni-yi’ii	wintertype  type
bbooni-yi’aa	wintertype type of
bchidoon	let slip a
bchidoonaamo	let slip a
bchidoonemo	let slip a
bchiwebnaa	discard sth an
bchiwebnaan	discard sth by
bchizhaadaan	pee on sth
bchizhaanaa	pee on sth
bdakaabte	smoke goes straight
bdakiig’igan	quilt
bdakshkaagon	be pricked by
bdakzidetaa	stick ones foot
bdangmo	the road curves
bdangshkaa	bend be bent
bdikwaan’gidoon	talk indistinctly
bdikzidebtoo	ones footfalls rumble
bdikzideyaashi	ones footfalls rumble
bedaabkide	be slow to
bejgamde	boil slowly be
bejgamza	boil slowly be
bengwidenh	maple taffy
bebskiigsenh	mosquito larva
bezgiignaa	fold sth an
bezgiignaan	fold sth
bgaanmizhiins	hazel shrub Corylus
bgaktaagzi	sound clearly
bgamaan’kot	clouds arrive
bgamaanzhe	vehicle arrive with
bgamaapnendwak	arrive quarreling
bgamaaskonenjge	arrive shining ones
bgamaawdoon	arrive with a
bgamaawnaa	arrive with a
bgamb’iwe	arrive in fleeing
bgamgaabwi	come and stand
bgamgaadewse	arrive walking
bgamgidaaza	arrive angry
bgamoode	arrive crawling
bgamoodeshin	arrive crawling
bgamji	get the chills
bgamshkaamgat	be adopted as
bgamwewdam	arrive barking arrive
bgamwek’om	arrive thundering Thunderers
bganji-	stupid useless
bgashknaabde	get cavities have
bgaskaakse	slap against something
bgaskaaksemgat	slap against something
bgaskdetegnaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskdetegwegnaamaa	slap smb on
bgaskjiishin	land with a
bgaskjiisin	land with a
bgasksatoon	slap sth against
bgaskshimaa	slap sth an
bgasksidoon	slap sth against
bgodaadzi	live as a
bgodaakwaa	deep in the
bgodkanaa	abandon smb in
bgojiiwi	be a hermit
bgojiizi	be caught between
bgonemaa	bite a hole
bgonendaan	bite a hole
bgonesga’ge	make a hole
bgonesgizi	board have a
bgonetoon	make a hole
bgonwizi	lack the ability
bgoshens	blackfly CL MCh
biidaagmipdaan	be able to
bgoshwen	bum something off
biidaakgwiinde	rest facing this
biidaanwza	come bringing a
biidkawe	approach leaving tracks
biidko’om	approach thundering
biidkwewe	approach leaving tracks
biidwewaagnebtoo	approach running with
biidwewegzhiibtoo	approach running and
biidwewegzhiishin	approach making sounds
biidweweshin	approach making ringing
biidwewesin	approach making ringing
biidwewezdeshin	approach making sounds
biigde	explode  2
biigjiisgondbe	be a blockhead
biigjiisndip	blockhead
biigdiiyeshkaan	break sth with
biiggondaagneyaashi	wreck ones throat
biignamwaa	break a large
biignani	be destroyed from
biigwegshkaa	be torn up
biigwegshkaa	be torn up
biigwesaan	wood shaving
biigza	explode  2
biijmaagnese	have the smell
biikdaawngaa	be a mound
biim’aa	slight smb
biimaakw’ige	button up ones
biimaak’odzo	button up ones
biimskobjigan	Mason jar
biimskobjigan	wrench
biimskogi	grow in a
biimskogin	grow in a
biimskogwewebjigan	Mason jar
biimskokshin	make a home
biimskomat	run in a
biimskwaagmigan	boat propeller
biimtagbidoon	twist sth stringlike
biimtagwewebnaa	twist smbs neck
biimtewegniwaab	yarn
biinaakzigan	laxative
biinaakzigo	take a laxative
biindaabaawdoon	flush sth out
biindaagnage	put stuff in
biindaagnikaade	have a pocket
biindgebiiyaa	be an inlet
biindgebdetoon	drive sth inside
biindgebtwaadaan	bring sth indoors
biindgebtwaanaa	bring sth an
biindgebzoo’aa	drive sth an
biindgenaashkaage	chase livestock inside
biindgenaashkawaa	chase smb inside
biindgeyaanmat	blow indoors wind
biindgeyaasge	sun shine in
biindgeyaashi	blow in sail
biindgeyaasin	blow in sail
biindgeyaawdaasa	carry stuff in
biindnaknigaade	be tucked in
biinjbajgan	funnel
biinjdiiyebnaa	poke smb in
biinjganebnaa	force smbs bone
biinjgi	grow in be
biinjgin	grow in be
biinjjaanebnaa	poke smb in
biinjna	internal in ones
biinjtawgebnaa	poke smb in
biinsaa	be bland be
biinsaagmi	be flavourless be
biinsidengwe	be numb in
biinsidoon	be numb in
biinsigaade	be numb in
biinsiingwe	be numb in
biinsin’ke	be numb in
biinsizde	be numb in
biinskibjigan	effigy piñata
biipiigbidoon	break sth to
biipiigdamo	be bumpy be
biipiigmaa	chew sth an
biipiigndaan	chew sth to
biipiigwaasin	be torn to
biipiisde	lung
biisbewaashi	be blown about
biisbewaasin	be blown about
biisbiigaade	be written in
biisbiigaaza	be written in
biisbiiyge	write finely write
biisbiiyaan	write sth in
biisbiiwaa	write sth an
biisdaawngaa	be fine be
biitookzin	low overshoe
biitookzinaagan	low overshoe
biitooshkaa	form layers separate
biitoozhgan	boot liner overshoe
biiweg’igaans	wood shaving
biiweg’igan	wood chip
biiwaabkoo-aan’koogneyaab	chain
biizgiikshkaa	be crinkled get
biizgiikshkaa	be crinkled get
biizgikaa	be crinkled get
binoojiinkaanaa	coddle smb treat
bkaabiigsa’aa	break sth an
bkaabiigsatoon	break sth stringlike
bkaabiigwaa	break sth an
bkaatgin’ge	clean net
bke’diwak	have a falling
bkedaabii	haul ones load
bkesewak	have a falling
bkewnaa	lead smb astray
bkidaabiiggoode	hang over something
bkidaabiiggoojin	hang over something
bkidaabiiggoodoon	hang sth stringlike
bkidaabiiggoonaa	hang sth an
bkidaabiigshimaa	hang sth an
bkidaabiigsidoon	hang sth stringlike
bkidaakwebnaa	throw sth an
bkidaakwebnaan	throw sth ropelike
bkijgaadeshin	have ones leg
bkijnikeshin	have ones arm
bkijgoode	hang over something
bkijgoodoon	hang sth over
bkijgoojin	hang over something
bkijiigshimaa	place sth an
bkijiigsidoon	place sth sheetlike
bkijiigshin	rest on top
bkijiigsin	rest on top
bkijshin	rest over something
bkijshimaa	place sth an
bkijsidoon	place sth so
bkijsin	rest over something
bkinaadaan	beat sth defeat
bkindaagan	fur pelt
bkiteshkaagon	be affected by
bkobdoon	detach sth
bkobiinjiini	put ones hand
bkobiinjiitaa	put ones hand
bkobiizdeni	put ones foot
bkobnaa	detach sth an
bkobiizdetaa	put ones foot
bkodaabdebzo	get a tooth
bkodaakshkaa	come off become
bkojdiiyeshkaa	get out of
bkomsadechge	pad ones stomach
bkonnakse	walk with a
bkoskaa	come off fall
bkwaabdebzo	get a tooth
bkwaakdajiitaa	curl up into
bkwaakdiiyechge	pad ones rear
bkwaakdoke-miiknoot	baseball pants bloomers
bkwaakninjiitwaa	shake a fist
bkwaakzidetaa	ball up ones
bkwaanmi’aa	give smb a
bkwaawgan	have a hunched
bkwaawgane	have a hunched
bkweg’agan	wood shaving flat
bkwegzhiishin	chip a fingernail
bkwenedaawngishmaa	throw sth an
bkwenedaawngisdoon	throw sth down
bkwenedaawngitoo	kick up dust
bkwenedyeshkwaa	kick smb in
bkweneyaabi	have blurry vision
bkweyaabkin’ge	take a chunk
bkweyaabkinaan	take a chunk
bkweyaabkinaan	disconnect sth
bmaabiignaa	go out with
bmaabiignaan	run sth stringlike
bmaabte	smoke be blown
bmaagnigan	splint for a
bmaagnige	weave a basket
bmaakgwiinde	lie floating crosswise
bmaapne	be in pain
bmaapnemaa	berate smb as
bmagsa’aa	shake sth an
bmagsatoon	shake sth
bmagwebnaa	shake sth an
bmagwebnaan	shake sth
bmasengwaam	sleepwalk
bmasengwaamo	sleepwalk
bmidaakgwiinde	lie floating crosswise
bmidaakgwinde	lie floating crosswise
bmidaakse	swing crosswise
bmidkwebtoo	run by
bmidkwewse	walk by
bmigsa’aa	shake sth an
bmigsatoon	shake sth
bmigwebnaa	shake sth an
bmigwebnaan	shake sth
bmijbiza	swerve
bmikw’om	go by thundering
bminaazh’aan	direct sth steer
bminaazhwaa	direct sth an
bmiweb’odzo	use crutches
bmojgan 	slingshot
bmoodegzi	go by with
bmoodeyaashi	be blown along
bnaabgonii	stop blooming its
bnaadaabiignaan	string sth the
bnaadaabiignaa	string sth an
bnaadaakde	be ruined from
bnaadwewemaa	confuse smb with
bnaakwaan’igan	harrow
bnaamnoon	roads go this
bnaan’kwe	ones hair thin
bnaandwese	lose ones footing
bnaashwin	sailboat
bnaazaabmaa	think smb looks
bnaazaabndaan	think sth looks
bnagaakkonaa	debark sth an
bnage	take clothes off
bnagiingweshkaa	have ones face
bnagninjiishkaa	have ones hands
bnagoonaa	push smb down
bnagzideshkaa	have ones feet
bnagwaawe	take clothes off
bnangaagwinaan	put eyedrops in
bne-zit	club playing card
bngishwaanmat	be a west
bnibiiwye	moult fur shed
bnikaagon	be bypassed eg
bnimgi	ones scabs fall
bnimgii	have ones scabs
bningwaam	fall out of
bninshe	hear in passing
bniskwaaktaa	straighten out from
yekdabi	be tired from
bnitam	hear something incorrectly
bnitwaa	hear smb in
boodnigan	mitt liner
boojaabaakjin	get a sticklike
bookjiidii	be a jerk
bookjiit	jerk
booknakse	break across its
bookpigeshin	break ones rib
booknoogneshin	break ones hip
bookshin	break across its
booksin	break across its
bookwegnaa	fold sth an
bookwegnaan	fold sth rigid
boon’ka’ge	clean stovepipes
boon’kiibde	fly straight down
boon’kiibza	dive in flying
boon’kiiyaabiignaa	lower sth an
boon’kiiyaabiignaan	lower sth straight
boon’kin’ge	clean stovepipes
boonaapnen	have an ache
boonii’aa	land sth an
boonwewesin	stop  ringing
boopoogdishkne	fart from being
boopoogjigaadese	fart as one
boopoojdoonebjigan	musket
boopooktoo	make sound of
boosdaasa	load things on
booskaawaa	be a hollow
booskakmigaa	be a depression
booskamgaa	be a depression
booskigwewe-zaagzi	be a real
bootaag’ige	pound with a
bootaagwaa	pound sth an
bshagiishkaan’kot	be dark clouds
boozaan’kot	be dark clouds
boozbii	have a wave
boozgwaashkni	hop on to
boozi-Nishnaabemo	speak Nishnaabemwin fluently
booznadwaa	get into smbs
bsendaan	crave sth
bsendaan	benefit from sth
bsenmaa	crave sth an
bshagdigwegnaamaa	scrape smbs knee
bshagdigweshkwaa	scrape smbs knee
bshagdoosknegnaamaa	scrape smbs elbow
bshagdooskneshkwaa	scrape smbs elbow
bshaggaadegnaamaa	scrape smbs leg
bshaggaadeshkwaa	scrape smbs leg
bshagiishkbikaawaa	be a dark
bshagiishkbikdabi	sit in the
bshagiishkaawaa	be a dark
bshagiishkdabi	sit in the
bshagjaanegnaamaa	scrape smbs nose
bshagjaaneshkwaa	scrape smbs nose
bshagjiidii	be a jerk
bshagshin	get a scrape
bshigiishkaan’kot	be dark clouds
bshigiishkaawaa	be a dark
bshigiishkbikdabi	sit in the
bshigo-dkokii	have ones foot
bshigo-dkokiise	have ones foot
bshigwaandwe	have ones foot
bshigwaakwe	miss in shooting
bshiidoosknegnaamaa	scrape smbs elbow
bshiidooskneshkwaa	scrape smbs elbow
bshiigaadegnaamaa	scrape smbs leg
bshiigaadeshkwaa	scrape smbs leg
bshiigdigwegnaamaa	scrape smbs knee
bshiigdigweshkwaa	scrape smbs knee
bshiijaanegnaamaa	scrape smbs nose
bshiijaaneshkwaa	scrape smbs nose
bshiingwebjigaade	have its foreskin
bshiingwegnaamaa	scrape smbs face
bshiingweshkwaa	scrape smbs face
bshiishin	get a scrape
bshkodaabaadaan	denude sth with
bshkojiikjige	shear animals
bshkojiiknaa	shear sth an
bshkojiishkaa	lose patches of
bshkonaan	strike sth
bshkondbekza	be shaved bald
bshkwaakbijge	pull grain pull
bshkwaandbeknaa	shave smb bald
bshkwaandbekza	be shaved bald
bsidyeshkaagon	be affected by
bsiigwaa	be bitter be
bsiigwaagmi	be bitter taste
bsiigwaagmi	taste flat of
bsiigwaagnagaa	snow not be
bsijii’aan	give sth a
bsijiiwaa	give sth an
bsin’aan	give sth a
bskaabiindwaa	go back to
bskaabniindaawen	mail sth back
bskaabwidmaagen	take sth back
bskaaknesjigan	lighter
bskaanzhese	flash on 
bskane’aan	light a fire
bskanebjigaans	lighter
bskanemaa	rile smb up
bskanese	flare up in
bskanese	ignite light
bskigaadegwaadaan	shorten the legs
bskiigse	fold fall into
bskiigshimaa	arrange sth an
bskiigsidoon	arrange sth so
bwaanwitmaa	be unable to
bwaanwizo	be unable to
bwaashjigaade	be winnowed
bwaashjigaaza	be winnowed eg
bwaasjigaade	be winnowed
bwaasjigaaza	be winnowed
bwaasjige	winnow eg beans
bwan’ka’aan	clean a stovepipe
bwan’ka’ge	clean stovepipes
bwe	barbecue
bwedye	have a sweaty
bwegaade	have sweaty legs
bwemaagzi	smell sweaty
bwenaamshin	sweat of things
bwenaamsin	sweat of things
bwesjigaade	be winnowed
bwesjigaaza	be winnowed
bweyaaknike	have sweaty arms
bweyiingwe	have a sweaty
bwezde	have sweaty feet
bwezgaade	have sweaty legs
bwezgiingwe	have a sweaty
bweznike	have sweaty arms
bzaanendmowin	serenity
bzagwiindaakdabi	rise to a
bzagwiindoodebtoo	scramble quickly to
bzagwiinjgaabwi	rise to ones
bzhigwaabe	husband leaving in
bzhigwaabewi	be a husband
bzhikwe	wife leaving in
bzhikwewi	be a wife
bzigwiindaakdabi	rise to a
bzigwiindoodebtoo	scramble quickly to
bzigwiinjgaabwi	rise to ones
bzogbiiygese	pen stick in
bzwaabmaa	be unable to
bzwaabndaan	be unable to
chargewi’aa	charge sth an
chargewitoon	charge sth eg
-daabaan’gizi	be a certain
daajgoke	troll to catch
daapshimaa	use sth an
daapsidmawaa	use something belonging
daapsidoon	use sth presumptuously
daashkga’ge	chop wood
daashkgide	split in two
daashkgiza	split in two
daataagmin’ga’aan	tap on sth
daataang’igan	bingo dabber
daataang’ige	dab things play
daataashkninjiishkaa	get cracks in
daatgaasdoon	pitch sth so
dagzi	be damp from
dbaabi	check things by
dbaabnjige	check on things
dbasgi	be lowgrowing plant
dbasgin	be lowgrowing plant
dbasii	be lowgrowing plant
dbigiishk	abruptly cut off
ddaakkiise	have strides of
ddaakboojge	cut things into
ddakgwiinjin	be immersed to
ddibaakshin	be wound around
ddibaaksin	be wound around
ddibaakwegnigaade	be rolled up
dditbijiiyaashi	be blown rolling
dditbijiiyaasin	be blown rolling
de-mno-mnik	a right amount
de-piichjiiza	be baked to
debaabi	be able to
debaagmandaan	be sated with
debaaskone	shine in the
debaaskone	shine in the
debaaskonwe	have ones lights
debbii	fit into a
debbii	have had enough
debdabwak	all fit sitting
debjiin’ge	be able to
debjiinaa	be able to
debjiinaan	be able to
debkoozi	be able to
debnoweshkaagon	be sated by
debnowezi	be sated with
debnowezin	be sated with
debpidaan	be sated with
debpwaa	be sated with
debshkine	fit into a
debshkinemgat	fit into a
debwaakdabwak	all fit sitting
des’on	a type of
desaabkidenh	scone thats fried
desaaksijgan	flatbed
desaangeyaa	be widebrimmed have
desiig’igan	maple sugar peanut
detediiyeshin	bounce on ones
detesninjiini	spread ones fingers
detesninjiitaa	spread ones fingers
dewdin	plant be injured
dewe’mawaa	drum for smb
dewji	plant be injured
dewne	have a throbbing
dewnezi	have a throbbing
dewnezin	have a throbbing
dgobiiwaa	include smb in
dgobiiyaan	include sth in
dgwaabminaagot	blend in visually
dgwaabminaagzi	blend in visually
dgwaagminaan	blend sth liquid
dgwaande	blend in colour
dgwaanza	blend in colour
dgwaabkaaza	get hitched in
dibni’ewziwin	ones possessions ones
dkaabkishin	cool get cold
dkaabkisin	cool get cold
dkaagmijiishkooza	cool off with
dkaagmisdamwaa	cool something liquid
dkaagmisin	cool cool off
dkamaabiignaa	extend sth an
dkamaabiignaan	extend sth ropelike
dkamaandwe	climb across
dkamaandwebtoo	scurry across a
dkambide	drive across fly
dkambiza	drive across fly
dkamma	road go across
dkamoodebtoo	scurry across on
dkigweweyaanmat	be a neckchilling
dkijiiyaanmat	be a chilly
dkipniishin	get chilled in
dkisdamwaa	cool something for
dkishkooza	cool off with
dkonwewniniigamik	police station
dnaagpii	struggle with a
dnaagshkooza	come weighted down
dnaamdam	be at a
dnaatese	be broadcast by
dnwewesin	be broadcast by
dootoobaa	be boggy be
dootoobjiishkwigaa	ground feel boggy
dootookwewebza	vehicle rumble rumble
dootoowaash	raw egg
dootooskgamde	boil gently simmer
dootooskgamzaan	boil sth gently
dootooskgamzwaa	boil sth an
dpanaama	be able to
dpashkzi	be able to
dpawebshkaan	open sth using
dpii	hang out at
dpiimgat	be a certain
dpishkoode	get a hole
dpidyeshkaamgat	get a hole
dpidyeshkoode	get a hole
dpwe	be able to
dwaagneshkge	clear a path
dwinaa	clear stuff off
dwinaan	clear stuff off
dwinmawaa	clear stuff off
dzhi’aa	a thing for
dzhigneshin	ones remains be
ebngishwaanmat	be a west
ekdabi	be tired from
ekgaabwi	be tired from
ekshkiinzhgwe	have tired eyes
ekwaa-dba’aan	finish paying sth
ekwaa-dbawaa	finish paying sth
ekwaa-oodenaw	the end of
ekwaabde	no longer function
ekwaabiiggaade	have tired legs
ekwaabiignike	have tired arms
ekwaabiigzi	be tired
ekwaabiigzide	have tired feet
ekwaabzo	no longer function

